They have me tied to a stake.
But I’m sorry—I’m not allowed to let you visit them.
Babbling senselessly?
Don’t let them know fear.
If someone like me is fit to be king, let me know.
I mean, is the jay more precious than the lark because his feather is more beautiful?
There are rats and thieves and pirates—not to mention storms, winds, and rocks.
You may change your mind later.
As for me, I welcome my good luck with sadness.
Well, she can get used to it.
Dat it not be de custom pour les ladies of France—I cannot tell vat is  To kiss.
You know from my clothing who I am.
Would you walk out with me, sir?—Oh, Desdemona— Yes, my lord?
Farewell.
Everything’s fine.
But why do you keep me here so long?
But like I said, when she tasted the bitter wormwood on my nipple, the pretty little babe got irritated and started to quarrel with my breast.
Here comes the good Macduff.
What’s this?
Some of them are leaning already.
I don’t think so!
For standing up for this unpopular king.
There’s no face more sincere than one washed in tears.
Do you work in this house?
Attack the breach in the city wall once more, dear friends, attack it once more—or else let’s close it up with English corpses.
Yes, or to wear cosmetics?
The whole world could look at you, and no one would be as blind as he is, thinking you’re beautiful.
I feel my stomach squeezing up against my heart.
Now, I’m very pleased with it being outdoors, but in its not being at the court, it is boring.
Oh, so you’d give me all your tediousness?
Oh, Cassio, where did you get this?
You’ve got something for me?
We’re lucky that Rome is rid of him.
They killed my children too?
I was ordered not to.
Come on.
Be happy about it.
Here.
Goodbye.
She gave up her life with your name still within her.
So I thank you all, and I invite each and every one of you to come watch me be crowned king of Scotland at Scone.
She wants to have a word with you in her bedroom before you go to bed.
I’m telling you to make a fist and pound.
I’ll help you.
I know how  Too light for a lout like you to catch—though no lighter than I should be.
You are not as happy as Macbeth, yet much happier.
Go away, get out of here, and stop following me.
I know it’s the moon.
When we love our job we get up early and go to it joyfully.
Are you a married man or a bachelor?
Nothing.
Well, in and of itself, it is a good life, but given that it’s a shepherd’s life, it’s worthless.
No, you have to swear it.
Are your doors locked?
As long as you aren’t ashamed to show it, he won’t be ashamed to tell you what it means.
I was with the heroes Hercules and Cadmus once, when their Spartan hunting dogs cornered a bear.
And still do, I swear by my hands.
How did you know what happened to your poor father?
Look behind you, my lord.
There are two opposite elements in everything, in men as well as in herbs—good and evil.
Then it’s certain they’re heading for Cyprus.
Come, Romeo.
Just read it.
I can’t promise that love won’t transform me, but I can promise you this
But I agree, sir, that we were locked out.
You know too much about suffering.
Get out!
All right then, back home we go.
I can’t live by pretending anymore.
Then let God grant me that you’ll be damned for that wicked deed.
But Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus is an honorable man.
The boy is warning me that someone approaches.
Do I blame Nature for being so thrifty?
Oh Portia, these are some of the worst words that ever stained a piece of paper.
Think of your sins.
Who in the crowd is calling me?
What’s wrong?
It was.
Your son will have my consent to marry my daughter.
You’re cold, cold, and you were never hot with lust.
It blushes, is easily embarrassed, and stages regular uprisings in a man’s heart.
But you have all the advantages from the harm done.
Fever, as we know, is a kind of madness.
That’s him.
Holy Franciscan Friar!
Go ahead, use your authority.
No.
Neither my husband nor the slave has returned, even though I sent the slave off running.
My lord, my life is as important to me as yours is to you, and it was never as precious to me as it is now.
Look how she rubs her hands.
You take your beauty sleep now.
That’s me.
Don’t play any nasty tricks on me.
If I die before you do make sure I’m wrapped in those sheets in my coffin.
How can I bring those promises back down to earth, unless my husband sends them back down to me by dying and going to heaven?
That’s not in her favor.
His daughter and I will be king and queen—God protect us!—and you and Trinculo will be our governors.—Do you like that idea, Trinculo?
That rotten scoundrel! 
And the doctors say it’s healthy to get up early— I don’t know what the doctors say.
It’s stopped now—it must be played for some local god of the island.
With a hand like this you need to
The wolves have finished preying for the night, and look—the gentle dawn is rising, dappling the sleepy eastern sky with spots of light.
What is your wish with regard to her?
Yes, let’s do that.
So I’ll stay here for a while.
Your friends are up and buckling on their armor.
She fainted at the sight of them bleeding.
Why are they shouting?
Your ear is good.
A little water will wash away the evidence of our guilt.
Here’s to Caesar.
If she gave you as much lip as she gives me, you’d be sick of her by now.
But tell me.
Is it out of lust?
Not one drop sooner.
I wish I had!
Well then, you must be in love.
Hamlet, you’re dead.
The other day I saw him defeated in a
If there’s any doubt, there is no doubt.
That’s how sound a man you appeared.
Or I’ll deliver your insults to his face.
He has always loved Cordelia best, and his bad judgment in disowning her now is obvious.
But so what?
Goneril with a white beard?
I’ve only made it this far since I left her place, walking at a moderate pace.
Antonio, oh my dear Antonio!
Decius Brutus doesn’t love you.
It is three o'clock, and, Romans, before night, we will try our luck in a second battle.
Don’t be afraid.
I would have my own brother arrested if he treated me so terribly.
Our tattered navy has reassembled and set sail, as formidable as the sea itself.
I’ll flatter anyone who flatters me—though what I’ve accomplished on land cannot be denied.
Run to your houses, fall on your knees, and pray to the gods to spare you the pain that you deserve for such ingratitude.
What are you doing?
Two thousand ducats a year from his land! 
Before she began shedding tears all over her lovely face, she was the fairest creature in the world—and even now she has no equal.
Come on, let’s go inside.
They’re entirely welcome.
That’s burglary, that is.
It did, it did.
Good morrow, neighbor, whither away so fast?
I’ll go hunting again tomorrow, I think.
She’s not going to borrow money from them.
Dear gods in heaven, what’s the reason for this?
I should have known it.
It will be made even heavier soon—by the weight of a man.
Learn to see better, Lear, and let me stay here where you can look to me for good advice.
Welcome, my lord.
He was like a schoolboy who finds a bird’s nest and happily shows it to his friend, who then steals it from him.
He and I will make up.
It’s been my bad luck to remain alive long enough to be able to tell the sad stories of my own misfortunes.
It’s him!
Here, at your service.
Oh, just see what happens after the pageantry is over!
Oh luck, luck.
It takes a wise father to know his own child.
I’m going to ask her to let me talk to Desdemona.
Let’s start.
If you knew the reason, you’d understand and would urge me to go rather than stay.
He’s quite simply the smartest working-man in Athens.
Did you see the gloomy Lord Northumberland?
Romeo.
I will not take it.
Drink when I order you, servant-monster.
My servant!
That’s not the tune I had in mind.
If it pleases you, your highness, will you lead us all inside?
She’s gone forever.
I should be ridiculed if I were offended so easily—and laughed at even more for speaking of you disrespectfully, when I had no reason to speak of you at all. 
Someone whose mood is as foul as the weather, very troubled.
You’ll soon be meeting Lorenzo at supper; he’ll be a guest of your new master.
But I’m overjoyed!
Make these men work.
Hey, mistress!
Yes, my lord.
Here’s an empty seat, sir.
Like a young man who wants to amount to something, this morning begins early.
I ask you, if you have a grudge against me, to kill me now, while your stained hands still reek of blood.
The prayers of saints and those that Richard wronged support us like high-walled fortresses.
Do so.
If this isn’t what you’ve been hoping for, I have no more to say except that you ought to say goodbye to Bianca forever.
Damn you for teaching me your language!
Or maybe I’ve got a hankering for a bundle of hay.
If you’re the lady of the house, then it’s true you’re stealing your role, because what’s yours to give away is not yours to keep for yourself.
That’s how intense things like love are quickly destroyed.
But I don’t think it’ll hurt him to tell the truth.
We can’t think that way about what we did.
Now, if courtiers were shepherds, that kind of courtesy would be unclean.
As far as I know, he’s okay and will arrive here soon.
I asked you for gold to pay my soldiers, and you wouldn’t give it to me.
And did you leave him like this?
I hope so too, Madam.
Where’s the Master?
Why are you silent?
Tell him, if he comes here, I’ll explain everything to him and, on my word, he’ll leave unharmed.
Well, onward, then.
It’s a skull with a scroll in its empty eye socket.
This guy here has banished two of his daughters and blessed the third one without intending to.
Are you going riding this afternoon?
What does he say?
Good Enobarbus!
How goes it, friend Eros?
But here’s a paper with Caesar’s seal on it.
Come to think of it, I thought I felt a scab there.
God will take revenge.
That’s right, uncle, talk to your heart, like the  Good morning to you both.
I took good care of you—piece of filth that you are—and let you stay in my own hut until you tried to rape my daughter.
Hurry up, Robin, and make the night dark and cloudy.
I’ll confess to you that I love him.
Lose nothing?
Imagine, when we talk of horses, that you see them planting their proud hooves in the soft earth.
He was not born to be shameful.
I don’t feel any urge to see a more handsome man than this one.
His arrival fits perfectly into my plan.
But now I see our weapons are like straws, our strength like a straw’s weakness, and our weakness past comparison, so that we seem to be the thing we most are not.
If you stick with me, when the time comes, there will be something in it for you.
It’s good we had this meeting.
Why does he talk like that to a girl he can’t stand?
An old Italian fox is never that generous, my boy.
That’s cowardly and womanish.
Make yourself comfortable.
Quickly, tell me how.
My lord, that dirty clown whom you laughed at so often is also missing.
I think this night is just like sick daylight.
Why, to keep the eyes on the sides, so that you can see anything that you can’t sniff out.
Take a trumpet, herald.
Let’s have him land and solemnly proceed to London.
It’s true I heard a humming sound, a strange one, which woke me up.
I was born to speak cleverly, not seriously.
She’ll be buried with her face upwards, then.
Tybalt, old Capulet’s nephew, has sent a letter to Romeo’s father’s house.
I’ll drink to her as long as there’s a hole in my throat and booze in Illyria.
Look, look!
Madam.
That’s the truth.
I like her more than I can say.
I would rip his heart out in public and eat it.
The reason I think he’s insane, besides the way he just acted, is that he told a senseless story over lunch about being locked out of his own house.
You’d make a good fool.
No one shows mercy because he has to.
Good night, Pompey. 
Oh, what a sad day!
But, sir, here comes your servant.
It’s doubly wrong to cheat on your wife and then let her see the offense in your eyes.
Yes, she said that.
Sir, I tell you that we are not.
A conclusion, a conclusion
No, not a bit.
If I don’t answer, perhaps you’ll think I’m accepting the heavy responsibility you foolishly want to impose on me.
Believe me, King of Illusions, I made a mistake.
I’m sorry, but I memorized what I’m supposed to say here today, and that question isn’t part of the speech I learned.
What’s the matter?
Claudio!
It’s Casca—I know your voice.
We’ll hurry.
Come on, you.
Are they as popular as they used to be when I lived in the city?
So I won’t give or risk anything for lead.
We’ve driven him all the way back to his camp.
Promise me you’ll let me live, and I’ll confess the truth.
Yes, you already hurt me in the church, in the town, and in the fields.
What did you mean by not helping me?
Just as you got Milan, I’ll get Naples.
Hurry to a convent.
What quality is that, my lord?
No, add a couple more syllables.
I’m Lorenzo, your love.
Tom will chase them off.—Go away, you mongrels!
Mistress!
For it is written in the book of Numbers
You’ve connived to steal my daughter’s heart, making her stubborn and harsh instead of obedient (like she should be).—And, my gracious duke, if she won’t agree to marry Demetrius right now, I ask you to let me exercise the right that all fathers have in Athens.
I have it ready.
Nice Grumio, bring me some.
Let’s look in his pockets.
To whom?
She shall, Lucentio.
Remind Richard of this, and he will weep.
It wouldn’t hurt you to be charitable.
Lady Luck is a fickle whore And never gives the poor a break.
Our friends are all waiting for you.
Where is he staying?
You’re acting like an ass, don’t you think?
Well, good night.
I haven’t slept since Cassius first began to turn me against Caesar.
What, you want them to weep our horses' blood?
Listen, because Tybalt was just killed, people might think that we don’t care about his memory as our relative if we have too grand a party.
Just you wait.
Where are you now?
Welcome.
And I hope he’s studying his music like he’s supposed to.
The adult snake lies in the ditch.
You’ve been competing with this king for my daughter.
I loved wine and gambling, and had more women than a Turkish sultan keeps in his harem.
You call that ranting?  
What’s there to say?
This is how the candle burned the moth.
Here comes Sir Oliver.
What’s Pyramus?
If I’m killed, it will only be the death of a man who was willing to be dead.
All this fighting is because of you.
Did you hit your head?
Here he comes.
But never mind them—if Caesar had stabbed their mothers, they would’ve forgiven him.
Hello and God bless you, sir.
I’ve outshot you, and not for the first time.
So please listen to me.
I thought I heard a voice cry, “Sleep no more!
Bad luck, bad luck?
I’m not like you.
My lord, what do you want?
Our love, which right now is like a flower bud in the summer air, may turn out to be a beautiful flower by the next time we meet.
I hope we’ve corrected that fault pretty well in our company, sir.
I’ll give you the most expensive ring in Venice, and I’ll make a public announcement to help me find it.
Why are you still crying?
It is not destiny’s fault, but our own faults, that we’re slaves.
Romeo cried out, “Stop, my friends.
And because you interrupt us so that we can’t dance for them, the winds have made fogs rise up out of the sea and fall down on the rivers so that the rivers flood, just to get revenge on you.
We must tie them up and leave them in some dark room.
Not that we love words more than fighting, like you do.
Neighbors and friends, though we don’t have anyone for the bride and bridegroom’s places at the table, you know there’s nothing missing in the feast itself.
If he’s angry, there must be something seriously wrong.
Taste your legs, sir.
Someone else has the same name, but he’s a better man.
Come break this up, Benvolio.
Sorry, sir?
I saw her, but I didn’t notice her.
Admit you were wrong.
That’s me.
Oh, heaven help me!
Your ghost walks the earth and turns our swords toward our own stomachs.
Your friend,      Artemidorus.” I’ll stand here until Caesar passes by, and I’ll give him this as though it’s a petition.
If my eyes don’t deceive me, you are my daughter.
Well, take him on up and we’ll try to pull it off.
This hasn’t reached the level of an Egyptian feast yet.
I wish that were true for both our sakes!
Portia!
Romeo, are you crazy?
In the first act he is an infant, whimpering and puking in his nurse’s arms.
Oh, there’s been a lot of quarreling.
Please, be cheerful.
She is banished.
But it’s dark out, and it could be a trap.
What does this say?
I’ll use Albany’s power and authority for now to win the war, but afterward one of the sisters—whichever one wants to—can get rid of him.
How are you, my friend?
I wish I were senseless, sir, so that I wouldn’t feel your punches!
But jealous people don’t think like that.
Seyton!
I’ll be good, sir.
If I had only died an hour before this event I could say I had lived a blessed life.
But wait a minute, please.
I swear to you by Rosalind’s own pretty hand that I am that unfortunate man.
You need not kneel to me.
A woman who was beautiful but never proud, who could speak well but knew when to be quiet, who dressed well but was never overdressed, who had self-restraint even when she could get what she wanted, a woman who never took revenge, who overlooked it when people hurt her, who was too wise to do anything stupid, who could think without revealing her thoughts, and who could refrain from flirting with men in love with her, that kind of woman, if she ever existed, would— Would do what?
This is a love token from some other slut, and you want me to copy its pattern for you?
Say goodbye to your sisters.
You too.
I’ll hire you again to go back to Rome.
Monster, I’ll kill this man.
down, and then say also that in Aleppo I once saw a Turk beating a Venetian, so I grabbed the Turk by the throat and hit him like this.
Oh, how stupid!
Will you come immediately?
I was too young at the time to appreciate her value, but now I know her.
As my child, I order you to do so.
Come on, let’s go see the king.
Come, come away.
That’s him, madam.
She’s obedient—a fine lady.
Dromio, you drone, you snail, you slug, you idiot!
Remember you!
I’ll get there.
Here.
That’s why I’m worried about you.
I’m as commanding as she is proud, and when two raging fires meet, they end up consuming the very thing that kindled them.
Romeo killed Tybalt.
I see that you are poor.
I have news from Rome, my good lord.
When you begged to stay, that was the time for words.
Or was it just your whim, on your own initiative?
I’m sure you and my husband will be as friendly as you were before.
Who’s blocking the way?
Life, wealth, everything belongs to Death.
What symptoms, my lord?
You’ve done a good job, that other men can attribute their murders to you!
Well, sir, it’s true it came soon after.
I won’t take it.
Small but brave in his surroundings, he’s trying to stand up against the wind and rain blowing back and forth.
And this is Metellus Cimber.
Yes, alright, go, I say, and bring him here.
In just an hour from now, Duchess of York, I’ll be saluting you as the mother of two beautiful queens.
If you don’t need it for some important reason, then give it back to me.
It would be hard, almost impossible.
Never, my lord.
She says that you should come to her.
Good-bye.
My lord, it’s news I wish I didn’t have to report.
I have the authority to dismiss this court, unless Bellario comes today.
If a man’s brain were in his feet, wouldn’t it be susceptible to frostbite?
Sir, he told me quite bluntly that he didn’t feel like it.
Get out of my sight!
I couldn’t bear to obey all of your daughters' harsh orders.
Farewell.
If everyone here knows us but we don’t know anybody, it’s time, I think, for us to pack our bags and take off.
Goodbye, sir.
But you have to.
Oh, sir, you are too good at predicting the future.
I’m going to get my  Please, listen to me.
Come on, you’re fooling yourself.
That’s most appropriate.
Bring here The gentleman who advised you To give away your land.
It’s absolutely true, so take good care of it.
Call the messenger in.
You’ve never thought of me like that, and you have no reason to.
I’ve already sent the proof in my letters.
Well then, add some interjections that indicate laughter, like  Hold on, Friar.
The Duke’s in a meeting right now, and he’s sent for you too.
My meaning  And I 
Tonight I received a letter from my sister telling me all about them—and warning me not be at home in case they come to stay at my house.
How’s it going?
And from now on, when you get hot with me, I’ll assume it’s your mother speaking and leave it at that.      
I’m a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
But who’s that coming this way?
No, no.
Twenty-five, sir.
Anyway, I have to say goodbye to you now.
If she’s cheated on me, then heaven itself is a fake.
Pass on the command to halt!
Good-bye, good Queen.
Sit between us.
Well, then, help me.
Sir Paris, I’ll make a desperate argument for my child’s love.
Not a word.
Remorseless, treacherous, sex-obsessed, unnatural villain!
Why do you ask?
As long as heaven and nature extend it.
Just now, my lord.
If you’re the ones setting my daughters against me, don’t let me be foolish enough to take it lying down.
You just said they had to face her.
Oh, what misery!
You do your job well.
Wretched boy, you hung out with him here, and you’re going to go to heaven with him.
Venus went home again, and her little son broke all his arrows, swearing he’ll never shoot them again, but play with birds like other little boys.
I’d rather cut my tongue out of my mouth than say anything bad about Michael Cassio.
Sir, I must get that diamond ring back from you.
Is that true?
And you’re all sizzle.
Why, what do you imagine his name to be?
How will I recognize you in the future?
To have seen much but own nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands.
I’ll tell twenty lies like that, so men will think I graduated from school at least a year ago.
I came from Corinth, Your Highness.
There must be a strange explanation for this—if it’s true.
Well, we were all born to die.
Write them together—yours is just as good a name.
My cousin’s a fool, and you are too.
Don’t you think you should go to bed, Malvolio?
Be gone!
If she won’t tell Benedick, someone else should.
My name’s Stephano, and I’ve come to tell you my mistress will arrive here at Belmont before sunrise.
I got him to leave, and made up an excuse for your trance.
First rehearse your song from memory, and make sure each note is pretty.
Is that possible?
I go, Caesar.
Don’t stay to answer me—get going.
Give him your arm.
Lunatics, lovers, and poets all are ruled by their overactive imaginations.
Not from crying.
Bring me face to face with Macbeth, that devil of Scotland.
We’ll keep the lines of communication open between us.
Yes, I found him when he was asleep—so that’s taken care of too—and the Athenian woman was sleeping near him.
Maybe she’s just pretending.
What did my man say?
They’re forgiven, then, if they don’t see what they’re doing.
Not very well, but I’ve met him several times.
My falcon is now hungry and unfed and must not be given enough to eat until she comes to me, for if her hunger is satisfied, she’ll pay no attention to the bait.
Nothing that interests me, my good lord.
Then it’s no surprise they had a bad influence on him.
Give me some ink and paper.
I’ll scratch out your eyes, even if they could fly.
Another case
A governor shines as brightly as a king until a king is near by, and the governor suddenly looks like a nobody.
How is my lord?
Let him hoist you up in front of the shouting crowds!
Hello, sir.
Here, drink to me.
I wish I could work for that lady!
We’ll burn his body in the holy place and use the brands to set the traitors' houses on fire.
Agincourt.
Yes, we talked for a couple of hours.
The more you joke about it, the more clearly I feel how serious it is!
If I could say hello to the fifth one as happily as I’ll say goodbye to the first four, I’d be very happy he’s coming.
Le Roy?
And request that she come here.
Do you know any, count?
What do you want with me?
Better to have an extra servant on hand than be understaffed.
I’m going to the Friar to find out his solution.
How could he be in debt without me knowing it?
You have amazed me.
Whatever kind you want, I guess.
They are my daylight, my life.
I wasn’t invited because they like me.
No, I won’t take a husband until they make men out of something other than dirt.
If luck’s with me, I’ll lose a father, and you’ll lose a daughter.
Alas, our poor country!
Don’t talk back to me.
What are you saying?
How clever of you.
Contagious infection of humanity, give me a chance to condemn you for the evils I know you’ve committed.
But who’s with him?
Good sir—
Oh,” he said, “Did you fall on your face?
Good night, dear Captain Blunt.
Here he comes, my lord.
My soul is full of sorrow.
Goodbye, goodbye.
But gods, you give us faults so we’ll be human.
Go get me something I can use to break down the door.
Look, here comes a walking fire.
That’s not your fault!
Are you going to join them?
He doesn’t miss a thing.
You look happier already, and I’ll be back quickly.
How’s my nephew doing, noble lord of York?
Because it’s dark out, I’m afraid all this is just a dream, too sweet to be real.
They want to talk.
Open your gates.
Spread the word.
Oh, go away, you’re a boring fool.
Shall we go watch this wrestling, cousin?
No, not until Thursday.
We have slashed the snake but not killed it.
She’s not even fourteen.
Fill my cup, Lucius, until the wine overflows it.
The same thing.
Go tell the hunters to blow their horns and wake them up.
No words can express the pain.
Lecherous Cleopatra, may all the charms of love soften those withered lips!
When I left him, he was less than nine miles from here.
A husband?
Please tell your brother what a convincing show I put on.
Yes, you’re right, her name is Margery.
I’m not a traitor.
They’re certainly a peaceful couple!
John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers, Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
No, please.
Now, on my life, the young child must be headed to the Tower to greet the young princes, whom she adores.
You’re on.
Since you’re giving me new assignments, let me remind you what you promised me but haven’t come through with yet.
In this letter you’ll find details of her illness and other, more serious matters that concern you.
It’ll be worth your while.
True, he has an excellent reputation.
But just be patient until we’ve calmed the masses, who are beside themselves with fear.
But since Laertes is better, we’ve given him a handicap.
Jailer, watch out for this one.
You piece of filth, you’re lying!
Stay with us tonight.
What stunning, exquisite, and unmatchable beauty—but please, tell me if you’re the lady of the house, because I’ve never seen her.
Believe me on my honor and keep my honor in mind, so you may believe me.
How is my generous sister?
Well, she got away.
With this I avoid the grief of Antony’s death.
Let it be a quarrel between us, if you live.
Rome has lost the ability to raise noble men!
Hello!
Didn’t you argue it out with your tailor for wearing one of his new suits before the right season?
Come, let’s go.
What looks like a horse is quick as thought disfigured by the wind, made as difficult to distinguish as water poured into water.
That upsets me much more than getting wet.
I remember, Adam, that’s  Here comes my master, your brother.
She will  A pimp!
Andrew Aguecheek”
I do indeed, my lord.
If we didn’t have rational minds to counterbalance our emotions and desires, our bodily urges would take over.
I’ll fight you.
Huntsman, look after my hounds.
That’s true, and with good reason.
Here are the rulers of France and Burgundy, my lord.
What kind of help do you need?
Whether you are sad or merry, the intensity of either suits you like no one else . . .
How could it be wisdom!
Niece, you are exceptionally perceptive.
Ratcliffe, my lord, it’s me.
How long do you plan to stay here in this forest?
My liege, this was my glove.
Oh, I was such a beast to be angry at him.
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
them brothers, friends, and countrymen.
I’ll get the general’s surgeon.
Why are you locking her away because of this fiend from hell, Signor Baptista?
I knew your father.
I’ve got my answer.
I’ll do that.
Let him thank me, who helped him get there.
I’ll fix you, I swear.
A gentleman?
Welcome, my lord.
Cassius, go to the next street and divide the crowd.
It’s pointless to talk now.
Swear you won’t.
He does, and now he’s taking revenge on you—for breaking promises and for murder, too.
Who can explain this to me?
Oh, my lady, I’m ashamed to admit it.
And hello to you, fair sister.
I’ve seen both of you fence.
This land will belong to your and Albany’s children forever.—And now what does my second daughter Regan, the wife of Cornwall, have to say?
He carries a third of the world.
Cleopatra— Do you think there ever was, or could there ever be, a man such as the one I dreamed about?
Oh, say it, and mean it!
Lean forward.
She says something, sir, but I will not repeat it to you.
You’ll find out everything in due time.
What “passion”?
I’ll tell them where you come from, though I don’t know who you are or what you want.
Their lips, like four red roses on a stalk, touched.
My lord, most humbly on bended knee I beg you to grant me the leading of the vanguard.
No, he’s in Florence.
Beat—
If he breaks the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling.
Are you dreaming or awake?
The  It’s too bad there’s more of the Moor than there ought to be.
I just beg death to wait awhile, until I place the last of our many thousands of kisses on your lips.
I’m sure I’ll never get married in the way my sisters say they’re married, loving their father only.
Can I go away while my heart stays here?
It looks like a day when the sun is hidden.
Error in the bill, sir, error in the bill!
Then let’s meet with our senior command and discuss what to do next.
The world has become so bad that now little wrens have settled where eagles used to roost.
I feel I should recognize you and that man 
The Duke of Cornwall, my master and patron, is arriving tonight.
There’s a time for all things.
If I could colonize this island, my lord— He’d cultivate weeds on it.
Tomorrow, soldier, I’ll fight by sea and land.
She dropped it carelessly, and, seizing the opportunity, since I was here, I picked it up.
Be pointed and brief.
Oh, no, that was my lady’s voice.
And who is England’s king but an heir of the great York?
I have to admit that when I saw his suicide during rehearsal, I had tears in my eyes—but they were tears of laughter.
You!
Go away now and in the morning meet me in the pit by the river in hell.
Therefore my sadness is without limit.
Beat the drum.
No, by Our Lady, I’m not such a fool to think what I please, and I don’t please to think what I can, and in fact I cannot think, even if I could think my heart right past thinking, that you are in love or that you will be in love or even that you can be in love.
In a time like this, it doesn’t make sense to criticize every offense.
How can Caesar be a tyrant then?
Did he marry me just to starve me?
I’m afraid we’re intruding too boldly on your sleep time.
Put your sword away.
Do whatever you want, and I’ll say your insults are just a bad mood.
Oh, how silly we are!
Many men would take you literally and take off with all this money.
If we aren’t relieved in an hour, we have to return to our barracks.
Where is my husband?
Whether you’re a good spirit or a cursed demon, whether you bring heavenly breezes or blasts of hell fire, whether your intentions are good or evil, you look so strange I want to talk to you.
Your Highness told me to ask for my commission today.
Are you going?
But what am I afraid of?
Three times in an hour I saw him down, and three times up again and fighting.
Let’s follow him.
I second that 
All three of us will marry now in death.
You’re welcome here.
For her I’ll be strange and condescending, and I’ll put on my yellow stockings and crisscross laces right away.
Is it on record that he built it, or is it just word of mouth?
What an ogre you are to slander someone you don’t know, and who doesn’t know you!
Am I in France?
What’s this, my lord?
Wish me luck.
I’ll put the juice of this flower on Titania’s eyes, and fill her with horrible delusions and desires.
Can you feel your legs?
He’s called Modo and Mahu.
Having already thought about the fact that she would have to die sometime, I can endure her death now.
What, does your wife say you can come home?
Go pinch your cheeks and bring some color back into your face, you cowardly boy.
I’ll come too.
I don’t know what you mean by that, but I’m sure Caesar fell down.
Some good friend of his must have died, because nothing else in the world could change a man so much.
I tricked your own eyes.
To tell you the truth, they fought the new enemy with twice as much force as before; they were like cannons loaded with double ammunition.
Wake up the moon goddess with a hymn!
One voice speaks well and talks about his friend.
Your servants are waiting.
Did we, my lord?
What do you say, Signior Gremio?
Stay in the dark.
You’re serious enough to know not to play games with Satan.
With a doctor’s help he might recover and become an ass again.
Innocent sweethearts, you have no idea who’s responsible for your father’s death.
Now the inconstant moon has nothing to do with me.
Watch his reaction.
But it’s dangerous to make him try to make sense of the time he lost.
Time will tell what you’ve got up your sleeve.
Farewell, farewell.
Give me my sin back.
It’s easy to get Desdemona on your side.
And I’m expecting his reproach.
Who’s this?
This is Trebonius.
Quiet!
Come this way, my lord.
If I were Brutus now and Brutus were me, I wouldn’t have let him influence me.
She is worse than wicked.
Why have you come here in such a mob?
I’ll tell you this, Constable, my mistress has his own hair.
You’re not being a good friend, Iago, if you even  Please don’t ask me to tell you.
Well, do what you want.
Two of both kinds makes four.
We can all go together.
He followed you.
He’s an important person.
Dear master, listen to me.
What a miracle!
Heaven help me, I don’t know you, sir.
Well then.
The noise is coming from over there.
Ungodly and monstrous!
No, not a penny.
His letter’s going to be hilarious.
The weakest fruit drops to the ground first, so let me drop.
What’s going on?
Oh painful, painful, painful day!
Most noble Antony!
Be sure to burn his magic books.
Sometimes snakes wrap around me, hissing at me with their forked tongues till I go crazy.
I swear, old fools become like babies again.
It won’t be long before I’m back.
Her worth is carried on the wind And it blows throughout the world, carrying the name of Rosalind.
Quiet there!
If you act like my daughter, I’ll marry you to my friend.
Darling Kate!
As for my daughter Katherine, this much I know
Are you trying to start a fight?
His words are like poison to me.
But your words are as sweet as honey—you’ve stolen from the bees and left them with nothing.
But I don’t get it—what’s the joke?
Oh, spite of spites!
My name is Mary, sir.
Are you ashamed of me?
If we lose this battle, this is the last time we’ll speak to each other.
That would be a little extreme!
It’s as silent as a graveyard here.
No, I had to do something.
Hortensio and I have given you up.
I will walk around and mingle with all of you, playing the humble host.
Take away the stools, the sideboards, and the plates.
I really believe your cousin was falsely accused.
What’s the matter, lieutenant?
You know that I used to believe in Epicurus and his disregard for omens.
Oh, I’ll beat him up for that!
I like you guys.
Isn’t that strange?
When we’re by ourselves you can call me “Tranio.” Everywhere else, address me as your master Lucentio.
And so you do.
Oh, how awful that a lady who’s been rejected by one man should therefore be treated horribly by another one!
The silk came from sacred silkworms, and it was dyed with fluid made from embalmed virgins' hearts.
The French have reinforced their scattered men.
Stanley, what news do you have?
What do you think?
I’m speaking purely in analogies and comparisons.
But where is my love?
In the end I grudgingly consented.
Help, my lord of Norfolk, help, help!
If she sends any letters to Richmond, you will be accountable to me for it.
Can’t you talk?
Oh no!
No eyes in your head til there’s money in your wallet?
This sunken-eyed hag was brought here pregnant and left by the sailors.
I’d write sad songs about unrequited love and sing them loudly in the middle of the night.
Yes, he’s the one who first told me about her.
Which one of you killed the deer?
I’ll expect you.
Are these our eyes?
On my life I swear to you that your youngest daughter doesn’t love you least.
When a great person departs, it causes more pain than when the soul leaves the body.
I’ll put her on that.
Then it’s confirmed!
Did a dragon ever hide in such a beautiful cave?
But so what?
I beg your pardon, sir— What did that guy say?
His faults were equally matched by his virtues.
And I’ll sing it for the duke in the intermission of a play.
Oh, my mistress, a villain has made a mockery of your love!
And that’s what you want me to do!
If I were my father, cousin, would I do this?
And there were a hundred spooked women huddled together in fear who swore they saw men on fire walk up and down the streets.
Please get him, my friend, I beg you.
Three months from twelve months of the year.
Yes, hand me one too.
I’ll never see it.
I swear to you— You have a good heart, and believe me, I’ll tell her that.
Cobweb.
Who should hang them?
What color is her hair?
Doesn’t she realize how unworthy she is of the gentleman we have found to be her bridegroom?
Ha, ha, ha!
Oh God, do I have to remember that?
Could you have found two Romans as good as these two?
Now go to the door and stay there until I call for you.
She’s no longer my daughter, and I’ll never see her face again.
Very suspicious.
I’ll meet all your attacks, even if you come charging at me with a lance at full gallop.
Then sure ones.
Yes, that the king is dead.
I didn’t see them.
It’s my duty to be quiet.
Dear lady, welcome home.
Now he’s telling the story.
The gods know— Oh, never has a queen been so betrayed as I have been.
Bloody, inhuman villain!
Didn’t you clearly say “Knock,” “pound,” and “put your fists to work”?
You’re stripped of your power and your command, and Cassio will govern Cyprus.
I’ve never seen a creature with a human shape who was so eager to destroy a man.
More or less.
I’m hoping for better.
Oh, I’m dead!
I’ve told you I’m your friend, and I’ll stick by you. 
She herself is as valuable as any dowry could ever be.  
Monster sweetie, be a good monster and just speak once.
A friend.
You have to pretend to be your niece’s father, and give her away to Claudio.
So, the man would talk half as much as Benedick and be half as serious as Don John— And if he were handsome, agile, and rich, too, he could have any woman in the world—all he’d need was her good will.
A rebel!
What if she’s pretty but stupid?
Lord, Lord, when she was a little baby—Oh, there is one nobleman in the city, a guy named Paris, who would be happy to claim her as his own.
Put out your torches.
But if you remember, I didn’t tell you to parody the style.
Miranda.—Oh father, I’ve disobeyed you by telling him that!
Listen!
I say he shall go to prison.
Next time God sends out a shipment of hair, I hope he gives you a beard!
Oh, deadly sin!
Bassanio, the best thing you can do is to keep living and write an epitaph for my gravestone.
I am a man again.
I did not kill your husband.
She had a premonition of what has actually happened.
Where have you been hiding?
By Jesus, he will defend his position on the practices of the ancient Roman wars as well as any military man in the world.
Actually, I should.
Delighted to stay?
Will you be having dinner with her tonight?
I’ll give the Jew my flesh, blood, bones, and everything before you lose one drop of blood for me.
I could marry you there, gentle Hermia, where the strict laws of Athens can’t touch us.
Give me your first, Mr. Mustardseed.
Let me have your attention for a moment.
Who’s shouting?
This is the brave sergeant who fought to keep me from being captured.
Leave me alone.
What do you think?
That’ll be fine.
We’ve seen the best our age has to offer.
Quiet!
Spirit, did you carry out the storm just as I ordered?
Then your lips will feel them more quickly.
You are my love, my love, I think.
You must be the one who laughs when boys or women tell you their dreams.
Don’t move, dog.
I’ll find you another horse.
I’ve done no more to Caesar than you will do to me.
He must be possessed by the devil.
I’ve always had great respect for your destiny.
Is he married to Cleopatra?
You don’t want to eat, sir?
I’d rather get a husband from your father.
Next thing you know, he’ll be saying “widower Aeneas.” “Widow Dido,” did you say?
Brutus, you give a nice speech along with your evil strokes.
Stand close together, in case someone loyal to Caesar tries to— Don’t talk about standing together.—Publius, cheer up.
Cover the sky with a low-hanging fog, as dark as hell, and get these overeager rivals so completely lost in the woods that they can’t run into each other.
The king has bet six Barbary horses, and he has prepared six French rapiers and daggers with all their accessories.
I’ll go with you, my lord, if you’ll allow me.
Yes, but swear by my sword this time.
Get busy, go!
Be quiet!  
Richard, a fiendish spy for hell itself, still lives, but only long enough to buy souls to send below.
Here I am, Theseus.
But she must be, Friar.
Talkers aren’t good doers.
Everyone.
And now they’re both gone.
No, that’s the truth.
But now I must condemn it.
How many, can you guess?
I’m at your service.
Upon the king!
Indeed, I remember it well.
Weren’t we both born under Taurus?
Leave me quickly.
Young man, have you challenged Charles the Wrestler?
Where’s Potpan?
I don’t want to have anything to do with you anymore.
Sure, I hate her, but I wouldn’t hurt her.
Be on guard duty tonight.
Lorenzo will be happy with what we’ve done.
The total due is about three ducats more than I owe this gentleman.
This makes me feel so much better!
You should be able to endure this because the world is broad and wide.
One, so they can save the money they spent on hairstyling, and two, so that when their hair falls out it doesn’t land in their dinner.
Therefore, dear Isis, do the right thing and give him the fortune he deserves.
Isn’t that him?
Well then, sing a lullaby to your generosity
The news I have to tell your majesty is that Buckingham’s army has dispersed from sudden floods and heavy rainfall.
I’ll get your goats, Audrey.
That you love my daughter to spite your soul.
Love’s messengers should be thoughts, which fly ten times faster than sunbeams.
Go wherever you want.
Actually, it’s my arm.
And here I am, going crazy in the middle of the woods because I can’t find my Hermia.
Oh, my handsome nephew, I must not say that.
I’ve said what I have to say.
Twenty crowns?
Tomorrow, while it’s still early, I will go see the witches.
And Walter couldn’t get his dagger out of its sheath.
What are you, girl?
Who’s sounding that alarm?
Now be quiet.
She always has to have a light next to her.
These lords seem so astonished that they’ve lost their use of reason and can hardly believe what they see with their own eyes.—But whatever the reason for your losing your senses, you can know for sure that I’m Prospero, that same duke who was kicked out of Milan and landed on this same island where you landed, and became the lord of it.
Well, I’m nearly finished.
Welcome, Publius.
Don’t trouble him further until his mind is more settled.
Do something about it, then.
That’s the curse of military service.
Oh, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous.
Man, they were asking for it.
I came here crying.
If you’re my friend, tell me what you’re thinking.
The fact that this summer bird, the house martin, builds his nests here proves how inviting the breezes are.
So hurry up, because we have twenty miles to cover today.
No?
What, you mean kid actors?
Oh, let us be merciful anyway.
And on their graves, I trust, the story of this day’s work will be written in brass.
It’s easy for a liar to pretend to feel sorrow when he actually feels none.
Well, Brutus, you’re noble.
He is the general challenger.
My lord, I don’t think I cried out.
Who am I, sir?
They’re all ready to eat dinner.
On that point, our letters don’t agree.
Right, and they wore proclamations around their necks, saying, “Be it known to all men by these  The eldest of the three brothers wrestled with Charles, the duke’s wrestler.
How can I describe you that will make you appeal to the young woman and will also agree with God, the law, my honor, and her feelings?
Take that, and that!
The glove which I have given him to wear may possibly win him a box on the ear.
The king made peace among all of us.
You can hope your father isn’t your real father.
Look, my little spirit is sitting in a foggy cloud waiting for me.
Stop, Sir Toby!
Are your tears wet?
If I were to make a prediction regarding this union, I wouldn’t say that.
No, no more than is reasonable.
By God!
Come on in, tailor.
Then die and be damned!
What, he never made you laugh?
Let him go, Gertrude.
Where are my good fellows?
Hurry.
For there never was a pretty woman who didn’t like to preen in the mirror.
Take on someone your own size
You once stole my position; now you get to have the grief that goes with it.
What then?
The candle is burning in your study, sir.
Yes, he has.
I’ll help you through this business.
Do you carry a pike?
Look, it’s going away.
I’m still a virgin.
Oh, my son, what issue is that?
He woke up the whole house with his loud and cowardly screams.
What do you want from me?
And no one eat any onions or garlic.
No matter.
Tell me, spirit, how’s the king and his entourage?
Didn’t you say something?
I won’t lodge any more than that under my roof.
I know I won’t please you.
Oh, what evil!
And if she starts to drop off, I’ll rant and yell until I wake her up.
What time is it?
Pay attention to the music.
Help me, help me!
Listen up, you slave.
Will we be separated?
It was the day he overcame the Nervii warriors.
Night is approaching.
No, stop.
If only I could spit poison.
Keep me in your thoughts and go comfort your cousin.
It would be just like a nice daydream or fantasy.
Neither will I.
You should ask me what time of day it is, instead.
Can’t Lord Stanley sleep?
What will we say is our excuse for being here?
Yes, they have.
He’s an unremarkable man, fit only to be sent on errands.
Bathe his filthy head with warm, scented water.
She’s cheating on me?
Just a man, like any other.
From this moment on, I’ll never say another word.
Get a little sleep.
Anyway, what should we do?
Feeling the loss like this, I can’t help but weep for him forever.
When they’re endangered, I save them.
How is your Highness?
Why, dear me, Kate!
I don’t remember.
Death is the best way to cover over her shame.
Say that it’s my fear that keeps you inside and not your own.
Then pack up your instruments and go away.
She’s full of good intentions.
I’ve heard of men who pick fights with other people on purpose, just to see how brave they are.
The ground is bloody.
Just give me a moment, please—only a moment.
If this business would really be finished when I did the deed, then it would be best to get it over with quickly.
Romeo ran away when Tybalt fell dead.
You’re wrong, sir, very wrong.
Goodbye, my sweet lord.—Goodbye, my sister.
My lord, I have thought over the request you just made of me.
It’s a villain and a bastard and a coward and a rascal.
This fellow will out-talk us all.
Stay away for now, and good night, my sweet friend.
Me, “greedy”!
Oh, dear!
My Cesario?
I bet he slipped away and went home to bed.
You’d give the moon a shove if it got stuck five weeks in its orbit.
Then you’re a better man than the king.
Oh wise judge!
I have come here to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
No?
And like I am for no woman.
He hadn’t arrived by the time we finished eating, so I went out looking for him.
Then I’ll really give it to you.
Doesn’t that make you want to cry?
Your Grace can do whatever he wants.
Who offered him the crown?
What do you want?
No, it is not possible you should love the enemy of France, Kate.
Put the goblets of wine on that table.
Now he’s a little crooked.
to wage war.
Oh, gods, make me worthy of this noble wife!
It doesn’t matter that I hit him first.
Why Dover?
A beautiful target is the one that gets hit the fastest.
God bless you.
If I ever have to ask you for something that will put your luck to the test, it’ll be something difficult and terrible.
It’s probably some noble gentleman stopping off in mid-journey, thinking to spend the night here.
Was someone as beautiful as you meant to be a whore?
You tie up horses by their heads, dogs and bears by their necks, monkeys by their waists, and humans by their legs.
Whip me, you devils, so I don’t have to look at this heavenly sight!
You were one of his favorites.
He’s thirty years old.
Is this the Prince’s brother?
Benedick, Beatrice praised your wit the other day.
But who is this?
To none but you, only to you.
Tell me one.
Up and down, up and down, I will lead them up and down.
Are you serious?
That makes me love you even more.
Please let me be your servant so I can be with you.
Bridegroom?
I swam ashore like a duck.
It’s bad news when a country is ruled by a child.
The will!
Everything will be all right.
I say “force” because Brutus would rather I stuck sharp blades and poisoned arrows in his ears than fill them with this.
What’s with you, my lord?
We’ll begin the ceremony the way we hope it will end—with delight.
You’re a senator!
The English army is near, led by Malcolm, his uncle Siward, and the good Macduff.
I put those wedding sheets on your bed, as you asked.
You mean “paragon.” A  The duke’s leaving the temple.
If you can’t do it, be grateful you’ve lived this long and go wait to die in your cabin, if it comes to that.—Harder, men!—Now get out of our way, I’m telling you.
Where are you hiding?
Or do you want me to criticize her like I do all women?
Depending on what we plant—weeds or lettuce, or one kind of herb rather than a variety, the garden will either be barren and useless, or rich and productive.
They couldn’t, they wouldn’t.
Didn’t you hear someone shouting?
You know, uncle, A sparrow once raised a cuckoo in its nest Until the cuckoo grew up and bit the sparrow’s head off.
Holy Father Lawrence instructed me to fall on my knees and beg your forgiveness.
I won’t beg the gods to punish you, or caution you to fear their judgment.
Heart, for once be stronger than all the rest of the body combined.
Give me your hand.
Romeo’s a dishcloth compared to him.
The demon Hoppedance is in Tom’s belly, crying for some fish to eat.
And as surely as I am alive, I am a virgin.
Keep an eye on her.
It’s only four o'clock now.
Is there a murderer here?
But all of you, remember what you’ve said and prove yourselves true Romans.
Hold on a second.
What kind of question is that!
They eat us up hungrily, and when they’re full, they vomit us up.
Where should I go?
Rulers abuse their power when they separate it from compassion.
Prepare yourselves.
They shouted three times.
He’s having a fit and talking nonsense.
I saw you at Count Orsino’s recently.
Now, my sweet lord, you know how much I like you.
Then if he dies, his death serves him.
Well, if a moist palm isn’t a clear sign of promiscuity, then I can’t scratch my own ear.
Regan gives good advice.
My lord?
Oh, for Pete’s sake!
Wait, sweet Beatrice.
Please stand up!
The only thing different about me is my clothes.
I could challenge him to a duel and then not show up.
Death and damnation!
Welcome, traveler.
I’ll look over the inscriptions again.
My lord?
But tell us, did you hear anything about Antonio’s loss at sea?
Caesar is listening.
Where will the old duke live?
Some of you go to Decius’s house and some to Casca’s.
I didn’t call you.
You know what they say.
Don’t be afraid.
But what love could make my Lysander leave me?
How do you feel?
What, you don’t want me to be chaste?
I’m old and foolish.
Her only flaw—and it’s a big one—is that she’s unbearable, a total witch, so much so that I wouldn’t think of marrying her myself, not even if I were in a worse fix than I am, not for a whole goldmine.
Therefore, love and tongue-tied simplicity can say the most even when they’re saying the least, in my opinion.
Please, I’m asking you, go ahead and get back to your state affairs.
Treat Desdemona well.
Give me your present to give to Master Bassanio.
What was the philosopher Pythagoras’s belief about wild birds?
It’s very strange.
It’s just my bad luck.
The second cock crowed.
Where did he get wine?
I remember a jumble of impressions, but nothing distinctly.
Well, if you have to go, you have to go.
What is my nation?
Quiet, you stupid fool.
Did you plan Cassio’s death with him?
That pretty boy, Claudio?
Macbeth!
Know him?
There, my lord.
The Jew will have justice.
Order him to advance his forces first thing, and we’ll follow.
To repay her for her troubles, Death Gives her undying fame.
What could I hope to get from you, who’ve got nothing but your charm to support you in life?
Isn’t he here?
I don’t know.
are you going to let them break me out of jail?
Look
Then you can hear my news, as dessert.
What name, madam?
Titinius, if you love me, get on your horse and spur him on until he’s brought you to those troops and back again, so that I can find out whether those troops are friends or enemies.
Go, take your sweetheart and leave him to me.
If you really love me, you’ll find me.—Nerissa and the rest of you, get away from him.
I sent him there, sir, but his crimes deserved a worse punishment.
Good luck.
You are only a soldier.
Hello there, good sirs.
But that’s not how you’re going to be.
You haven’t forgotten the half of a kingdom I gave you.
No man must know.” What comes after that?
Oh, she’s a fine woman!
I assure you he can.
Enough, Captain.
She took that ring from me.
I don’t feel so well, but I won’t stop.
He’s waiting nearby to find out if you’ll invite him in.
Take him to the surgeons.
BASSANIO Please, Leonardo, think about this  I’ll do my best.
Please call him and tell him to come back here.
Lady Beatrice is angry with you.
Here.
Honestly, sir, I’d need to use words to explain why, and since words are so unreliable and false, I’d rather avoid using them in a serious discussion.
Should I do it now?
I’m good at everything that ordinary men can do.
I’ll read it to you.
Here comes my wife now.
You speak absolutely correctly, sir.
The king has just honored me, and I have earned the good opinion of all sorts of people.
Be quiet and listen to me.
You’ll fall backward when you grow up, won’t you, Jule?” And she stopped crying and said, “Yes.” Now you stop too, Nurse, please.
But I’m sure he’ll get even with you.
His lips were nice and red, a little more lively and passionate than the red that was in his cheeks—one was pure red and the other more pink.
Heaven keep you safe!
Come, come, let’s remember why we’re here.
May God reward you for your kindness!
Young man, excuse me, how do I get to the Jew’s?
But now it’s stopped.
Bless your five senses!
I had no reason, no reason.
If this were a play, I’d complain it was unrealistic.
Then you were right on target.
So you had time as you were dying to look around?
Were you talking about Juliet?
Please, follow straight after me.
His speech was like a tangled chain.
You mean I should groan and tell you?
Why did you do that?
Divide each man into a thousand, and there you will have an imaginary army.
Take me by the hand and say, “Harry of England, I am yours.” No sooner shall I hear that word than I will tell you straight out, “England is yours, Ireland is yours, France is yours, and Harry Plantagenet
Now I will have to send my humble proposal of peace to that young man.
No?
This is like if I asked you to wear your gloves when it’s cold outside, or eat nutritious food, or do something that’s good for you.
And even though Nature has given us the wit to have this argument, hasn’t Fortune sent this fool here to stop us?
Please, remain seated.
And if you’re not as attentive in serving him as you used to be, that’ll be good.
From a certain knight who swore on his honor that the pancakes he was eating were good, and that the mustard on top of them—he swore on his honor—was bad.
And so she turns men inside out and never acknowledges the integrity and merit that a man has.
Go ahead.
What do you want?
God bless your Worship!
This is not the way to win your daughter.
Look how lush and healthy the grass is!
Oh, I’m sure you don’t dislike him so much as to wish he were here alone, even though you say this to find out how the rest of us feel.
It’s good you found me.
My lord, you know I’m your friend.
Oh, she could sing a wild bear to sleep!
What’s going on?
Please don’t tell me any more.
M”—Malvolio.
You will, my lord.
Be kind to her.
Who was that?
Me neither.
You have no reason to say that.
Friar!
Ely joining Richmond troubles me more than Buckingham and his quickly assembled army.
Yes, it’s William, sir.
If I can trust my dreams, then some joyful news is coming soon.
Speak.
Just a minute ago I heard you say you didn’t like it when Cassio left my wife.
My lady ordered me to deliver her letter.
The Emperor is calling for Canidius.
Why do you pity him?
You are lesser than Macbeth but also greater.
I remember wooing a pea plant in her name, and then taking two pea pods and begging her to wear them “for my sake.” Those of us who are really in love will do the strangest things.
Tonight I’m having a feast that we’ve celebrated for many years.
I’m very uncomfortable, and that won’t help my case.
You’ve stunned him.
That’s the truth, sir.
By next week, I’ll be able to pay you.
Is this the same Moor whom the senate considers so capable?
Damn you, don’t mock and sneer at me.
She speaks daggers, and every word stabs.
I can’t find anyone who saw her leave.
Oh, except for the widow Dido?
Did you just call me “beautiful”?
No one’s heard from him.
If the English had any sense, they would run away.
Yes, my lord.
Not for a second.
Don’t leave me in the lurch.
My lord!
My dear friends, thanks for your patience.
Oh, you idiot!
Oh, noble sir!
piece of cheese will get him.—I challenge you to a match.
Come with me, Silvius.
I’ll be off before you are.
Just as tall as my heart.
I have a good plan.
An important droplet is hanging from the corner of the moon.
So, in that case, tell me who’s next in line to inherit the kingdom of Naples?
Cram your good news into my ears.
On a night like this!
Why are the branches still living when the root is gone?
Musicians, come in!
I swear that nothing anyone can say will change my mind.
Caesar was a tyrant.
I’m sweating and trembling with fear.
Hmm, let me see
I’m sorry I hit you.
This week he was sad, moody, and depressed and very different from his usual self.
By the door.
Oh, yes, we could, sir.
I wish you were what I wanted you to be!
Oh God of battles, bolster my soldiers' courage.
I don’t like sports.
I suspect that I have committed some offence to the city and you have come to reprimand me for not knowing better.
Who are you, moaning in the hut like that?
Really, the priest was good enough, no matter what that old guy said.
What do you think of his belief?
These outbursts of yours don’t even look like real fear.
Please sir, if love or money can buy anything in this empty place, tell us where we can rest and feed ourselves.
If I can tell him that you have submitted to him sweetly, he’ll request your assistance in finding ways in which he can support you.
It’s good we’re doing this.
Either put away your sword or use it to help me stop this fight.
Shame of what, lady?
Tell us.
I did.
If that’s the case, tears wash my eyes more than hers.
I want very much to find out.
You, my earthly moon, are now eclipsed, and that alone foretells my ruin.
And return to us immediately, bringing Messala with you.
Ha ha, are you good?
Please let me know your plan, Bassanio.
Their dying shouts broke my heart!
Let him sink there so the sea will cover him!
Father, go ahead.
But listen, Charmian.
The Lord Mayor is knocking.
One servant cried, “God bless us!” and the other replied, “Amen,” as if they had seen my bloody hands.
Take good care of him.
Do so, and tell my sweet to be ready to scold me.
You’ll do no such thing.
I’ll give my life for you, just to prove this guy wrong when he says I don’t love you.
Well, brighter lights always dim the smaller ones.
Here, take my sword.
You wouldn’t tell a sick man he “seriously” has to make his will—it would just make him worse.
Romeo!
But you’ll see that the very thing that joins them will be the thing that separates them.
My gracious lord, I should tell you what I saw, but I don’t know how to say it.
It was just two days ago that I tripped you and beat you up in front of the king.
The news is true, my lord.
Not someone who doesn’t share that disposition, meaning Mark Antony.
Defend me, God, both when I’m asleep and when I’m awake.      
Am I to be dictated to, like a child?
Mistress, you have to go see your father.
Assemble our squadrons on the other side of the hill, in sight of Caesar’s navy.
Okay, I’m ready.
Stay inside.
It is that.
I’ll be gentle and mild.
Were you born here?
The last thing he did before sending me off, dear Queen, was to kiss—the last of many such kisses—this Indian pearl for you.
Tell the Duke of Albany to prepare for war immediately.
The treacherous weapon is right in your hand, sharp and dipped in poison.
I’m ready now to hear what my good cousin the Dauphin has to say—for I hear that the greeting you bear is from him, not the king.
And I for Rosalind.
I’m sure he had more hair on his tail than I have on my face when I last saw him.
Pray, let me stay.
Then why did you travel so quietly?
giving it back to him.
Then I’ll be quick.
They will, Nerissa, but we’ll be disguised as men.
Do you want me to lie, madam?
Did he beg my pardon?
I, fight against you, Antony?
I know it.
The Prince’s fool”!
When it’s paid, bring your friend back.
Here.
What’s my name?
I’m here, here!
And to you, good sir.
I do too, my lord.
If you want to pick a fight, you’ll have to find a more substantial excuse.
I’ll poison you, or beat you with a club, or stab you with a sword.
I humbly thank you, sir.
They’re on the march.
What I’m saying can’t anger him.
He  I can’t tell what’s going on.
You were born from a woman.
Your grief should not be equal to his worth, because then your sorrow would never end.
And I’ll neigh like a horse and bark like a hound and grunt like a pig and roar like a bear and burn like a fire at every turn.
They intend to challenge us here at Philippi, responding to our challenge before we’ve even challenged him.
I tried to play games with God, and he turned my fake prayer on my head, giving me for real what I’d asked for as a joke.
How’s the queen?
She’s a perfect woman, it’s true.
He’s dressed like a freak, a total freak, and not at all like a proper footman or a gentleman’s valet.
We shouldn’t displease him.
Help me out of here, quickly!
Don’t you have any manners, you savage?
I know the burden of hosting him is both an honor and a trouble, but that doesn’t mean it’s not a trouble just the same.
Madam, I’ve come here to try to make you like him.
He is taking care of it as we speak.
Maybe you will find a husband without a beard.
Here I am at your service, my dear lord.
Good.
He has captured Toryne.
Here’s the water, right?
You’ll be my wife, dearest, and I’ll serve you forever.
Get over it.
Oh, it’s as easy as lying.
One of you go find the forest ranger.
He has epilepsy, a disease where you fall down.
Do you know why the nose is in the middle of a person’s face?
We only drink toasts to my niece.
Not so fast.
How dare you serve it to me this way!
The one the Moor gave to Desdemona, which you asked me to steal so many times.
I’ll go to the right side.
Let me be your servant.
What, are you sleepy?
Please, sir, be kind to me and tell me.
Oh Banquo, Banquo, the king has been murdered!
Ah-ha!
Quiet!
The food inside is warm, but you’re out here freezing.
You mean an officer?
He’s lying through his teeth!
Oh, in this love, you love your child so badly, that you go mad, even though she is in heaven.
But, my good lord, the words of you and Lord Buckingham are as trustworthy to me as if I had seen and heard him speak myself.
I’ll limp after you.
This means I’ve mistreated Edgar.
Definitely not.
Yes.
Watch me
Have you forgotten who I am?
Look what I have here.
I hope I see him and hear him again soon.
Whenever they meet, there’s a little battle.
But how long will “ever” last?
And I had to be away!
If he wakes up before we kill him, he’ll never stop punishing us.
No wonder she’s waiting to get married.
Why are you leading these men through the streets?
Sport?
He has some wonderful home furnishings—that’s what he calls them—that he’ll use to decorate his house when he gets one.
Yes.
Madam, there’s a young gentleman at the gate who really wants to speak to you.
Oh, how wonderful to see you!
A pretty pathetic monster.
Yes, and that’s a serious failing.
Mankind is so beautiful!
Sir, what is your opinion of me?
That’s enough, Dromio, please.
The ship was already sailing.
But don’t go.
I’m tired of this moon.
He exposed Edgar’s murderous plot, and was wounded, as you see there, when trying to apprehend him.
He said that the people weren’t used to being spoken to except by the  What blocks of wood!
In fact, every imprisoned man holds in his own hand the tool to free himself.
You may come across better food, but not a warmer welcome.
Yes, very well.
A piece of ice.
It’s the wind.
A horse, a horse, I’d give my kingdom for a horse!
Easy, Petruchio.
Bring him with us.
Let’s seek out some shady place where we can sit down alone and cry our hearts out.
But don’t delay.
That’s unbelievably bad.
What did they do wrong?
Duke, the abbess has wronged me and I seek justice.
I think so.
Hello!
I meant a crowbar.
I’ll be nearby to help you, and between the two of us we can handle him.
But in the meantime, just assume that I’m paranoid—as I’m pretty sure I am—and keep thinking she’s innocent, please.
Shall we call in the ambassador, my liege?
Then see a good one for me.
Madam, oh, good Empress!
No, he refused it publicly, in open court.
Tongue, do not speak.
It’s a sweet lozenge that you choke on.
Go away.
The people fear me in the country and the town.
We come to hate that which controls us.
But wait, there’s some prose after her poem.
When are you getting married, madam?
The Queen is coming.
The duke’s trumpets.
Yes, I’ll go.
Good-bye.
You aren’t wood, you aren’t stones—you’re men.
Now it’s time to get back to my studying, since I have a lot of serious business to take care of before dinner.
You asked for justice, so rest assured you’ll get more justice than you bargained for.
If not, then I have no powers of observation.
It’s a lie, you thread, you thimble, you measurement!
Let the dying fire shine a glimmering light throughout the house.
And I your servant.
The fool’s nice enough, but he’s such a huge eater, and slow as a snail when he works.
Hello!
You’re getting in the way of our work.
Both, both, my girl.
Look, here comes Helena.
Certainly not!
I’ve noticed it myself.
Come on, woo me, woo me.
How many people who are humble now would be great then?
I’ll speak to him now.
And when she does, he’ll imagine she’s flirting with him.
No doubt the murderous knife was blunt till it was sharpened on your stony heart—you reveled in my lambs' bloody guts.
In the end I left them standing in the smelly pond behind your room, with the stinking water covering them up to their chins.
I’ll get some cloth and egg whites to bandage his bleeding face.
Brutus, do not provoke me.
No, don’t throw any of it away.
Where’s Antony?
Can’t I say something?
I don’t know why I should be afraid, since I haven’t done anything wrong.
I hear him.
Is he angry?
Can God be so jealous and hateful?
I can’t speak anymore.
But who is this person, sir?
The worst thing imaginable has happened.
Thank you, sir.
And yet I do love you.
What!
To which we all appeal.
Oh, life is full of surprises!
I’ll go my own way.
Signor Brabantio, hey!
Let’s go find that hussy, Fortune, and and mock her till she starts distributing her gifts more equally.
I never gave him reason to be jealous.
There’s other work for you to do.
Hold the friar too.
Dromio, what stuff of mine did you put on a ship?
person when you’re ready, if you’re inclined.
Is it true that good King Edward has died?
Yet you killed my children.
I have promissory notes from Florence that I have to deliver.
I’ll rest here.
I’ll fall at his feet and lie there until my pleading and crying convinces the duke to come here and force my husband to leave this abbey.
It’s come again.
Let it all go.
You want proof?
If you still love her after that, then marry her tomorrow.
What will you give us?
Today shall always be remembered as a holy day.
Well, is it not news that Petruchio’s coming?
Let’s go.
How?
She’s cold.
Justice, find the girl!
Who greets me so early in the morning?
It’s amazing, if I may say so, that she let herself be tamed.
I’m losing this duel of wits.
He really plays well.
We should speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.
Yes, what time is it?
You really don’t recognize me, father?
Hey!
But silence, like a knife, cuts open my heart With strokes that draw no blood.
Why, what’s Tybalt’s story?
My niece, you are welcome here as if you were my own daughter.
Come, take away the  Here comes Master Signior Leonato with the sexton.
I swear, at the moment I really couldn’t tell you how I ended up here.
This just may cheer me up.
Run, everyone, run!
I will proclaim my name around the field.
He pretended to be some kind of sorcerer, and he gazed in my eyes and took my pulse.
I’ll never believe a madman until I can see his brains.
He didn’t say anything, he’s reading.
So I’ll be forced to call you a jerk, Sir Andrew.
Lady Strachy married her wardrobe manager.
Will you be here when I return?
My clerk has some comforting news for you, too.
Well sir, they’ve lied; moreover, they have said things that were not true; secondarily, they are slanderers; sixth and lastly, they have falsely accused a lady; thirdly, they have confirmed things that did not in fact happen; and, in conclusion, they are lying scoundrels.
Calm down, calm down.
All the most beautiful paintings Are black when compared to Rosalind.
Goneril, you aren’t worth the dust the wind blows in your face.
Yes, why not, my lord?
Huh!
And who are you, good sir?
Give me your arm.
Meet with the ambassadors.
I certainly did, and I never wanted to see you again.
They ought to be whipped for being so stupid.
Some say the lark makes a sweet division between day and night.
Lovers, it’s time to go to bed.
Where’s my fool?
Oh, don’t fight by sea, noble Emperor!
My lord is so heavy!
I’ll sleep over here.
Did he express any dissatisfaction with you, either in his words or his face?
He would never have spoken to me like this.
Tie up the servant, for he is mad as well.
But I’ll open the curtain and let you see the picture.
Why do you ask?
I’ll move to a more open place and there speak to great Caesar as he walks past.
What, you ignore my kind advice and try to please the devil I’m warning you about?
Oh God, he’s murdered his master!
Your words, like your wounds, bring you honor.
There’s no one else here.
What was the second noise for?
Don’t you, Dromio?
I spoke angry, foul words to him, and with that I will kiss you.
Not now.
The name suits your fierceness.
Let’s slash their backs and grab ’em like we do rabbits, from behind.
I’d be ashamed to give you this.
And what do you know, boy?
Oh, if you only knew how close to success you are, even while you make fun of what I’m telling you!
But both of these were put off by Elizabeth Grey, a careworn mother of many children who had once been a beauty but was now a stressed-out widow long past her prime.
Is there a scale here to weigh the flesh?
Oh, dear God, please help him!
Madam, if I do as well as I think I’m going to do in these dangerous, violent wars, you and your relatives will have more good at my hands than you’ve ever had bad!
Wake Duncan with your knocking.
She was tricked, divorced, wronged, spited, killed!
But we won’t shift the scene to Southampton until Henry reappears.
I’d give it all up—yes, I’d sacrifice them all to this devil here—to save you.
What do you mean, beside yourself?
All this excitement has made the time fly by.
None of us.
If you don’t like him you should quit.
Like that.  
Don’t wake her.
And wouldn’t I be damned if I let this monster live to do more harm?
What, does the news only get worse?—Please, Bassanio, I’m half of you, so let me bear half the burden this letter brings you.
I’m sorry.
Our jailers will shrivel up with old age before they make us cry again.
I don’t understand why she’s not locked up.
Say something again.
Please, come with me.
Who’s in there?
I can’t believe that.
Lock yourself in and send him word that you’re dead.
What’s the matter?
What, out in a storm in the middle of the night?
It’ll be my job to talk about how Benedick is sick with love for Beatrice.
What traitor hears me and doesn’t say amen?
Stanley, pay attention to your wife’s doings.
Here’s more insanity for us.
But if you fail, you have to leave immediately.
It’s true, Hero says so.
Pardon me but I do not know what is “like me.” An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
Did she give up all those chances to marry noblemen, give up her father and country and friends, just to be called a whore?
What do you think, madam?
Once she exclaimed, “Sisters, sisters, shame on you!
Or if you haven’t sat as I do now, boring your listener with all your lover’s virtues, then you haven’t loved.
Here and now I seem like Antony, but I can’t keep myself in this form, my boy.
But she is now Mark Antony’s wife.
You say you have news that’s old?
Yes, you’re right.
Yes, the state’s half can be reduced, but not Antonio’s.
I’ll obey you until I can make bail.
I can confirm that all these shocking things are true.
What else you do know?
We say the king is wise and good, and his noble queen is getting old, pretty, and not jealous.
As we were trading blows, more and more people showed up to join the fight, until the Prince came and broke everyone up.
I’m sick, Charmian.
But I’ll marry you under different circumstances—with extravagant festivals, public festivities, and celebration.
Yet I wish I could take that promise back, so I had it to give again.
How’s the night going, boy?
Go back to my sister’s.
It’s not my fault he acts like that, Helena.
Didn’t I turn down the page where I left off reading?
I’d rather be a baboon than kill myself out of love for some woman I can’t have.
No, if you struggle with me— Just half an hour!
If I do so, it will mean more if I say it behind your back than if I say it to your face.
They’re more like how you would act if you were a woman telling a scary story by the fireside in front of her grandmother.
Well, I’m going to break in.
Since you’re old and respected, you should be wise.
Your wife wouldn’t like it if she were here to hear you make that offer.
God, that song’s even better than the other one.
Strange things are about to happen, Edmund.
We don’t want it at our festivities.
I’ll go to the Antipodes for any little errand you can think of.
I did too, and he also swore he would marry her tonight.
He ran out that way, sir, when he couldn’t— Follow him, now!
When was the last time you saw her sleepwalking?
I serve the king, who sent me here.
Take a tip from me, then.
You’ll find Beatrice there, talking to Claudio and the Prince.
Carved it up and down like an apple tart?
A duke who is noble in name and character.
Your Highness just told me that I should ride there before you.
And when you get married, I hope I can be married at the same time.
The most beautiful queen they ever had.
You insolent rascal, what trade?
The adventurous knight will wave around his sword and shield, the lover will be rewarded for his sighs, the crazy character can rant all he wants, the clown will make everybody laugh, and the lady character can say whatever’s on her mind, or I’ll stop the play.
Iago, I’m leaving my dear Desdemona with you.
Do you know him?
And you called the fairy creature harmless, monster.
Oh, good Demetrius, will you find him for me?
Go back again, slave, and bring him home.
This looks like an abbey.
That would make anyone cry enough to water his garden with his tears.
Fierce, fiery warriors fought in the clouds in the usual formations of war—ranks and squadrons—until the clouds drizzled blood onto the Capitol.
Is he sane?
All right, go ahead, keep up your little game, pretend to be sympathetic, but then nudge each other and wink and make faces at me when I turn my back.
Listen, will you walk with me around the town and then dine with me at the inn?
If you want to watch, follow me.
We cannot fight for love as men can.
Oh, damn her, damn her!
It’s a good shilling, I promise you.
Don’t let the heavens hear these chattery women abuse the Lord’s anointed king.
I have.
Keep it from leaving, Marcellus.
Caesar and Lepidus declared war against Pompey.
It hangs like an old worn-out mop.
Husband, I’ll eat with you in private today and hear your confession about all the pranks you’ve pulled.
Three miles from here you can see it coming, a moving forest.
Tell me so I can be satisfied.
Romans, countrymen, and friends!
His father was Philip of Macedon, as I remember.
Spoken like a brave man who respects his reputation.
That’s my sister.
He’s as brave as a fox.
Friends of this country.
Oh, hello, father!
Good night, good night.
There is a way, ma'am.
Meanwhile, let’s go to bed and dream about this.
By Jesus, I am your Majesty’s countryman, and I don’t care who knows it.
Well, sir, because silver has a sweet sound.
Neighbors, hello.
Oh, that’s ominous!
Good Macbeth, we’re ready when you are.
I’ll wear this one and none other.
Do it immediately, or all your previous services to me were accidental, without purpose.
It’s not a false gallop, anyway.
If I’m not dreaming, you are Emilia.
We all begged you not to go ahead with those marriage plans, and your lovely daughter struggled between disgust at marrying an African and the desire to obey you.
Many of you own slaves, which—like your donkeys and dogs and mules—you use to perform awful jobs just because you bought them.
He cried out, “Wait for me, dear cousin.
Horrid villain!
Well, did you think about what I said?
I’ve almost forgotten what fear feels like.
Why?
No harm was done.
Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had no part in the killing, will benefit from his death—receiving a share in the commonwealth, as you all will.
The air is sweet and appeals to my refined senses.
What heir of the York family is there alive other than myself?
Those are only two of his weapons.
But as I said, the general isn’t really in the mood to hear music now.
Honest to God, where’s the sexton?
My dear lady— Please let me say something, I’m begging you.
Because he’s daring us to do it.
I’m killing myself with this provocative speculation . . .
Let me see what he looks like, so when I see another man who resembles him, I’ll know to avoid him.
Peaseblossom.
Because it doesn’t have eight?
Come on, my lord.
She was too good for me.
Good night, good brother.
I’m so sorry.
Take my advice.
No, you can’t sign a contract like that for me!
The night air is too raw and cold for us to stay outdoors.
In his ignorant jealousy, he’ll totally misunderstand Cassio’s smiles, gestures, and jokes.—How are you, lieutenant?
Your lieutenant, Cassio.
I’ve been singing ever since you made your daughters into your mothers by giving them all your power.
If it looks like my good father, I’ll speak to it, even if Hell itself opens up and tells me to be quiet.
Do you want to hear what she says?
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
I’ll go, sir, and I won’t bother you.
Tell me, friend.
When his god falls asleep, the monster will snatch his wine bottle.
I like the morning.
With anger, with fever, or with hunger, sure, my friend, but never sick with love.
If it’s fighting he is after, some of us here should run and hide.
Richard, the duke of Gloucester, is very dangerous, and the queen’s sons and brothers are haughty and proud—it would be better for this ailing country if they were subjects, not rulers.
Locked in her tomb.
My Cordelia, even the gods admire how much you’ve sacrificed for me.
Rest easy in the meantime.
But he’s not better than mine.
Yes, Celia, we kept her here for your sake.
But prepare yourself for some unpleasantness.
Sir, fifteen days of March have gone by.
What’s going on, my lord?
If it were nothing, you wouldn’t need to hide it.
The humiliation that the king is suffering now will be revenged thoroughly.
You’re a traitor.—Off with his head.
Goodbye, you dumb old spirit.
What was the last cry for?
My reputation, my reputation!
Do so, good Messala.
Gratiano!
I’d endure it until he came home again.
Don’t harp on that point, madam—it’s past.
Go on, my loving lord.
What do you mean, the seventh cause?
You were tricked into fighting, Gloucester.
Do they attract big audiences?
No, come back, Kate.
We’re probably a very valuable catch for these guys.
Really, niece, you’ll never get a husband if you keep saying such harsh things about people.
Good shining, Moon!—Really, the Moon shines very well.
Evil villain!
You interpret my words in a melancholy sense, my hearty friends.
Now he’ll sit under a  Let’s go.
Your preparation for war sounds like something.    
Sir, I’m upset.
joy except my love for you, and I find that only your majesty’s love makes me happy.
Who doesn’t know he’s dead?
This is his second fit like this.
Welcome.
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
The tiring journey seems to have made you gloomy.
I swear, it must be thirty years.
Well, he’ll be dead, so he won’t see anything.
The partygoers have arrived.
And you can do poor things that lead to rich results.
Is he losing his mind?
We have to strike while the iron’s hot.
I haven’t even heard a mouse squeak.
Go relax now.
Keep an eye on her, Moor.
It never ceases to amaze me the way people ignore the correct, traditional principles and rules of war.
Are you hiding your forehead with a golden crown, when, if there was any justice in this world, it should be branded with the murders you committed—your slaughter of the prince who held that crown, and of my sons and my brothers?
This storm has no pity for either wise men or fools.
From there we’ll safely carry you to France and back, calming the waters of the Channel to provide you with a smooth voyage.
He goes forth to war bravely.
What’s up, my man?
Reading their mail isn’t as bad.
What are we going to do, Enobarbus?
I swear to her that I haven’t, but it doesn’t change anything.
That means it’s more likely to be fake.
What’s wrong with you?
Gracious Queen, even Herod of Judea wouldn’t dare look at you unless you were in a good mood.
It was about to say something when the rooster crowed.
When did you become so fond of singing, boy?
wise and graceful as the earth is wonderful and divine.
Laertes, I want you to hear what they say.
If you ever loved your poor dear father— Oh God!
Am I on earth, in heaven, or in hell?
I’m glad to see you.
But fathers who are rich Make their children kind.
Give my compliments to your lady.
Yes, sir.
Where’s that dog?
With his natural luck, he will beat you even against the odds.
It just appeared before them and marched past them with slow dignity three times, a staff’s distance from their amazed eyes, while they turned, quaking with fear and too shocked to speak.
And he’s still warm, by God.
He’ll bring a lot of money to the person who owns him, that’s for sure.
Please go.
And she’s fierce, even though she’s little.
We have feelings.
I remember.
Will it never be morning?
But I’m still fairly high-ranking.
If this letter doesn’t make him fight, I don’t know what will.
And I swear by my wickedness (if I had any) that I am a knave.
But look, Cassius, Caesar looks angry and everyone else looks as if they’ve been scolded.
Be quiet, you mumbling fool!
This letter is for you from Signor Antonio.
There were no primary ones.
You’re right—I’ll go quietly.
About the table, sir, dinner will be served on it.
You’ll live in luxury with Gremio.
And, gentle Puck, take this transformed ass’s head off of the head of that Athenian man, so that when he wakes up at the same time as the rest of them do, they can all go back to Athens.
You can go straight to hell!
Girls who marry so young grow up too soon.
Get me some ink, paper, and a candle.
Take it away.
Who pleaded with me to pardon 
Though the truth of your treachery is as plain as black on white, I can scarcely believe it, it’s so past understanding.
We beg you, for your own sake, to respect your safety and give up.
He wants to be crowned.
You’ll be sorry later, but it’ll be too late. 
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
What do you say, my fair  I do not know dat.
Great Queen Juno is coming.
I know he’s noble, rich, young, and with a fine reputation.
Sir, he ate with this woman at the Porcupine.
That is the key to long-lasting love.
But where have you been?
Thank you, doctor.
What do you believe?
Twenty crowns.
There you go.
Speak.
Yes, you did, sir.
If his face changed as much as his personality has, I wouldn’t recognize him.
You’re not asleep yet, sir?
Then make a circle around Caesar’s corpse, and let me show you the man who made this will.
You’re my true and honorable wife, as dear to me as the blood that runs through my sad heart.
You must be over there.
His letter will tell you how he’s doing.  
Surrender, dog!
Fool, speak well of yourself.
The princes are under some strange misunderstanding.
So you’re telling me to give it time and wait for summer.
But how is it possible that you still remember this, through all the darkness of the past?
Take me to the garden.
Is that the man?
But what can be done to prevent it?
Enough, cousin.
Either here or at the Capitol.
Good morning, gentlemen.
What woman’s servant?
Yes, it faded away when the rooster crowed.
Yes, my lord?
We want to hear it, Antony.
What would you say to me now if I really were your precious little Rosalind?
No trouble, sir.
Ah, my good old friends!
This pantomime was probably a summary of the play.
I found her adjusting the crown on her dead mistress.
With this in mind, speak, my lord.
Romeo!
He is a noble prisoner!
I’ve sent twenty people to look for you.
Why does the world report that Kate is lame?
He died on Viola’s thirteenth birthday.
God forbid he wants to challenge me!
Madam!
She has betrayed me and shall die.
That pale face of yours will frighten the others as well.
I’ll be there shortly.
All right.
Go on, master, and I will follow you—with truth and loyalty to my last breath.
Beware the thane of Fife.
What would you like to see?
And you’re right to do so.
Hermia is lucky, wherever she is, because she has beautiful eyes.
You’ll just have to be patient for a little while.
And when I get my reward, I’ll get out of here.
If you had any sense of pity, or manners, you wouldn’t pretend to fight over me like this.
Therefore, my old age is like a blustery winter
Past noon.
What?
I’ve almost missed the time he requested.
A lover would have to be weepier, of course.
She’s the daughter of this famous Duke of Milan I heard so much about but never saw before.
Here it is.
The devil’s advice is nicer.
Certainly.
But I don’t hate Orlando.
Good day to both of you.
Well, get out of here then!
You can’t mean it, Tranio!
I hear a voice more piercing than the music of these trumpets calling “Caesar!” Speak.
I don’t care.
I’m tired of you.
Madam, with all my heart.
If I saw twenty of the greatest powers that pay tribute to Caesar taking such liberties with her hand—what’s her name now?
It was windy on shore too.
You’ll have wine enough, my lord, soon.
I’ve only given the articles a cursory glance.
Don’t you have one word of joy?
Great Mark Antony is a widower now.
Hello, my friends!
What, don’t courtiers' hands sweat?
There will be a feast from five o'clock until eleven.
But listen to me, signor—
We’ll leave tonight and be home a day before our husbands get back.
Come on, you and I will go soon.
Many men have sold their souls Just to view my shiny surface.
Speak plainly.
No, let me say some good things about you while I’m in the mood.
If you won’t leave, then 
A hundred and sixty-eight hours?
Take me off to jail?
Wait, here’s a coin for you.
It’s true.
He’s the most stubborn dog that ever lived among humans.
I don’t know what you’re talking about.
Pray God your wife doesn’t send you a worse one.
What a fearful night this is!
My father and mother coupled when the demonic moon was descending, and I was born under the Big Dipper, so it’s inevitable that I’m rude and oversexed.
I’ll give you mine.
Besides, I don’t like you.
It would be better if they were all on his father’s side, or that there were none at all on his father’s side.
Excuse me, weren’t you with Countess Olivia just now?
This man said, sir, that Don John, the Prince’s brother, was a villain.
Well, may peace be with you.
Yes, I guarantee he won’t drown—even if this ship were as fragile as an eggshell and as leaky as a menstruating woman.
Join your witchcraft with your beauty, and let Antony’s lust combine with both.
Please, just wait a minute.
Aren’t you Kent?
Cobble you, sir.
You know that the style of a man’s jacket or hat or coat means nothing.
How can you top that?
It’s clear that someone less noble, less loyal, more bloody-minded than Clarence but not a blood relation, deserves as bad an end as my brother, but he goes free.
This play isn’t right for you.
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome, while I with equal affection welcome yours.
Good-bye, sir.
I think he told me Paris was about to marry Juliet.
I’m sorry about your daughter’s death, but I swear our accusations were true, and backed up with proof.
You who are beautiful beyond words, calm down and let me explain myself.
Like an invitation.
I’ve told her father, and he’s given his permission.
You’re mistaken.
But if I ran away from the Jew, I’d be following the advice of the devil, who’s the very devil himself.
I didn’t take any more pains bringing this message than you took pains in thanking me.
I have a good eye, uncle.
Whatever I think, I have to say.
Your wife, Fulvia, is dead.
But there’s reason for me to look more closely at this schoolmaster.
I’m surprised I didn’t bite back.
Didn’t you send Lysander, as an insult, to follow me around praising my eyes and my face?
Hello, good sir.
If I had the goddess Juno’s power, I would make the strong-winged messenger, Mercury, pick you up and seat you beside Jove.
Are you talking about young Master Launcelot?
When you have said your lines, go hide in that bush.—Everyone else, go there too when you’re not onstage.
No, Caesar doesn’t have epilepsy.
Yes, your Highness.
Why, that man is a total fraud and rascal.
No, my dear, you were a little angel who kept me going.
Are you good at those kinds of things?
Or are you just teasing?
Hey!
Is this the king we offered to ransom?
Indeed, honor is what I want to talk to you about.
Why did you cry out in your sleep?
If we flee from the boar before the boar even pursues us, we’ll only make the boar angry and suspicious, causing him to chase us when he never intended to.
I won’t fight you.
Stay here.
But has Catesby gone?
I had a round with him, and his sword thrust is so deadly that you can’t even duck out of the way.
Our closest relatives are the ones most likely to murder us.
Oh ho, oh ho!
Name him.
Boy, your words can’t excuse the harm you’ve done to me.
Good-bye.
Let me see Philostrate.
Yes, and be wise.
I’ll talk with this good man.
Maybe I should ask you what right you have to take me, but I’ll take you, Orlando, to be my husband.
When such a great man dies there should be a thunderclap.
But tell me, monsieur—what sport are the ladies missing?
I’m just saying that if you’re good and beautiful, your goodness should have nothing to do with your beauty.
I’m a friend, a friend who knows you well.
Madam, not yet.
We’ll put a leash on this danger that’s now running wild.
Wake up, wake up, ring a bell and wake up all the snoring citizens.
Is she dead?
I’m going far enough that I’ll be riding from now until dinner.
Change into better clothes.
That’s not fair.
Oh, heavenly mixture!
Ah, good old Kent said this would happen—that poor, banished man.
Oh, she’s so witty and creative!
Come out, you frightened man.
All I wanted to tell you is that the lantern is the moon, I’m the man in the moon, this thornbush is my thornbush, and this dog is my dog.
He said she was unfaithful?
Please treat my babies well.
As I vowed, I will unite the York and Lancaster families.
Well, thank God I’m cured!
Kingdoms and provinces dropped from his pockets like loose change.
By eight o'clock.
Not in the stocks, fool.
Get her attention and draw her home with music.
This hard work would be boring and nasty to me, but I’m working for a mistress who makes me enjoy my labor.
She was only dead, my lord, as long as her slander lived.
It really is good to see you.
Get down on your knees and thank heaven for sending you such a good man.
If you don’t repay me on the day we agree on, in the place we name, for the sum of money fixed in our contract, your penalty will be a pound of your pretty flesh, to be cut off and taken out of whatever part of your body I like.
Quiet!
If I ever see it, I will challenge you.
Whose tongue?
What are you going to do?
First, Peter Quince, tell us what the play is about, then read the names of the actors, and then shut up.
About as old as you are, my lord.
Then you’re a fool for being sad that your brother’s soul is in heaven.
Caesar, I never believed in omens, but now they frighten me.
This was the noblest Roman of them all.
I tried to stop speaking plainly, since you dislike plain speech so much.
Where are you from?
Yes, and she was mild too.
Help me, ladies!
Men may sleep, and when they do they may have their throats with them, and some people say knives have blades.
Never apologize—when the actors are all dead, no one can be blamed.
It’s you we were laughing at.
Oh, well, stay till then!
I’ll give you letters of introduction to some friends of mine who will help you.
You never heard of the Centaur?
Being satisfied with a job well done is payment enough.
How will that kill this marriage?
What, are you afraid?
My noble uncle, do you know why he acts this way?
I don’t have to give you answers that you like.
My fears can’t actually make you evil.
If he doesn’t like it, he can go live with my sister.
I will, my lord.
I admire your efforts, and all of you will share the rewards.
We used to sit together and sew one flower with our two needles, sewing it on one piece of cloth, sitting on the same cushion, singing one song in the same key, as if our hands, our sides, our voices and our minds were stuck together.
Madam, keep up hope.
As for myself, I didn’t dare laugh, for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the stinking air.
I can do anything!
What is this?
How dangerous to have this madman on the loose!
Against my will, I’ve been told to bring you in to dinner.” There’s a double meaning in that.
Poor Tom will take you there.
Could you tell me how near the enemy is?
Not young enough to fall in love with a woman because she sings well, but not old enough to dote on a woman for any reason.
You’ll get some of what you want.
Damn it, who’s there?
Good—here’s the stretcher.
You just said all your lines at once, cues and all.—Pyramus, enter.
I’d feel sorry for them, if I were human.
You told me that you don’t salute at the court but kiss hands.
The gods do this to test my bravery.
Let’s discuss it some more.
Sweet Montague, be true.
I could drown the world.
Well there, now you’ve said it.
No, I swear on my honor, I haven’t, madam.
Honestly, she is too ill-tempered.
But I’ll admit I don’t care for you.
It’s my daughter!
But ships are just fragile boards, and sailors are just men.
What a righteous judge!
Girls younger than she often marry and become happy mothers.
So farewell, all, for my tongue has almost finished with its life.
A knight on a quest?
What’s the bet?
Let the blood rushing to my cheeks be calmed.
But despite all this, your daughters will give you a lot of money—or do I mean pain?—in the coming year.
He is coming.
I wouldn’t allow your enemies to say that, and I won’t believe it from you.
It’s true, and he asked me to beg you both to attend.
Then I’ll listen to her.
We don’t want you to think we came here to offend you, except that we want to offend you with our good intentions.
Yes, him, woman.
I’ll ask him for my position back again, and he’ll tell me I’m a drunk.
It’s impossible.
What crimes have you committed to be sent here to this prison?
I always loved you.
Come like shadows and depart in the same way!
She  I can guess her answer.
No, not for all of Venice.
What do you think of his neighbor, the Scottish lord?
No woman is strong enough to put up with the kind of intense passion I feel.
I’ll call for you soon.
He’s hot-tempered, and he might try to hit you with his staff.
He does indeed show sparks of something like wit.
If that’s true, I think the same thing about you.
I hope heaven protects him from the weather, because I lost sight of him on the stormy sea.
Iago has kept his word.
I’d be peering over maps to figure out the best ports, piers, and waterways.
In his heart?
Yes, noble lord.
They left me and my servant there, tied together.
But if it’s not double-dealing, sir, I wish you’d deal me another.
Why should I be afraid of your judgment when I haven’t done anything wrong?
I’ll bet we’re both thinking the same thing, master.
Not me.
How old is he?
I’ve become an enemy to my own soldiers!
You go ahead, and I will follow you.
Amen.
Her ladies-in-waiting saw her go to bed, and early this morning the bed was empty.
I’m strong-willed.
I’d give up my life and take my son’s place in the mud on the ocean floor if I could see them alive in Naples.—When did you lose your daughter?
How many times will Caesar bleed again in show, though he now lies at the base of Pompey’s statue, as worthless as dust!
Now, you tanned fieldworkers who are so tired of August’s labors, get out of the dirt and come rejoice with us here.
Yes, we will.
I had no idea she was cheating on me.
I hope it doesn’t make me unchaste that I really want to be a married woman.
Thinking, my lord?” My God, you keep repeating everything I say as if you were thinking something too horrible to say out loud.
Thieves!
Who talks of my nation?
Will you come with us?
Do you know anyone who would kill someone for money?
Yes, madam.
What?
It’s even stranger when an angel is so angry.
Good riddance!—Close the curtains and leave.—I hope everyone who looks like him will make the same choice.
I didn’t hear anything.
He may command me as my king, but you still have power over me as a relative.
Caius Ligarius, I was never your enemy so much as the sickness that’s made you so thin.
You didn’t offend us, you offended the king.
Are these spirits we see before us?
And when you married him and made him the master of your bed, I gave you my word that I would do everything I possibly could for him.
If so, you’d be buying them to sell again.
Well, Petruchio, all this is very encouraging.
And you,  And how are you liking the shepherd’s life, Master Touchstone?
Sweet marjoram.
But now I’ll grit my teeth and kill anyone who tries to stop me.
Yes, boy, I’m ready.
She would hang on to him, and the more she was with him the more she wanted to be with him; she couldn’t get enough of him.
Oh Ratcliffe, I had a terrifying dream!
Yes, sir.
Tell my servants not to mention that we were gone.
Does Leonato have a son, my lord?
Your brother Don John the Bastard has run away from Messina.
I’ll tell everyone what you did, even if it
What can you see out on the ocean?
Next month he’ll stay with us.
She’s not feeling well.
Then there would be two cousins lying sick in bed
Ha, ha, ha!
The things that threaten me have only seen my back.
The biggest clue is his seriousness.
where it takes on some other horrible form that drives you insane.
Oh, I’m out of breath from this foolish chase.
Where is that knocking coming from?
Thieves!
On, on, you noblest Englishmen, descended as you are from battle-tested fathers, fathers who, like so many Alexander the Greats, have fought in these regions from morning until night, sheathing their swords only when there was no one left to fight.
Now please leave me alone.
Should we go find Benedick and tell him about Beatrice’s love?
Oh, Juliet, I already know about your sad situation.
Yes, my lord.
Do I look as pale as everyone else does, Lord Dorset?
I can’t hide what I am.
I have sent for the strawberries.
They’re wise and honorable, and will no doubt give you reasons for it.
I wish there wasn’t so much dew on the ground.
But you’re keeping a hundred knights here who are so disorderly, vulgar, and obnoxious that our noble court is starting to look like a noisy cheap hotel.
He’s pretty awful in the morning when he’s sobering up, and even worse in the afternoon when he’s drunk.
Whenever you want, since you’re the one who wants it.
And what’s her story?
You’re a well-dressed lady.
What are you going to do for her?
Therefore I say again that he must have used some powerful drug or magic potion on her.
It has no fighting spirit.
So be careful.
Get out of here!
Look, love, see how devoted I am?
Your Grace does me as great an honor as could be wished by any of his subjects.
Oh, stop, fool.
The fool will stay.
Have my brother-in-law’s troops been mobilized?
God knows why, but your mother and your brother have taken sanctuary in Westminster Abbey.
If that’s true, it’s a serious fault, and Caesar has paid seriously for it.
No, sir, she’s human.
I smile and think, “Thank goodness the wind doesn’t flatter me
He’s conducting some business with my lady, and sooner or later he’ll leave.
Among the ten thousand the French have lost only sixteen hundred are mercenaries.
But not so nice when women misbehave.
You should say, “I sort of know him, but not well.
I can’t say “whore.” It makes me sick to say the word even now.
You should pity me for that reason, not hate me.
Good Cinna, take this paper and be sure to lay it in the judge’s chair where Brutus sits, so he’ll find it.
I believe it won’t stop moving and stand upright till Richard wears the wreath of the realm.
Is your little pearl in there?
You keep cramming words into my ears that I don’t want to hear.
If it’s okay with you, you should not press your grievances any further, but realize that the current situation should be enough to reconcile you.
Go on ahead.
Why, she was dead before you were even born.
If he’s been killed, say “Yes.” If not, say “No.” These short words will determine my joy or my pain.
What did you mean by giving me this handkerchief?
But I’ll tell you something from my soul.
Retreat further, my lord, retreat further.
That’s enough for the senate.
My master’s decision.
You’re standing.
Like her?
Really, he won it from me once before in a dishonest game of dice.
Draw your sword, scoundrel, or I’ll slice your thighs like flank steak.
Then, to answer every man briefly, wisely, and truthfully—wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
Is that a lot of      He says his name is Master Fer.
This is the way to trick gullible fools.
I’ll copy the embroidery pattern and then give it to Iago.
The town is besieged, and the trumpet calls us to the gap, and we talk and do nothing, by Christ.
I want to speak with Clarence, and I came here on my legs.
If you regard it as shameful, put the shame on me.
And no doubt he is, gracious madam.
Then God be praised, it  Petruchio, do whatever you like.
Our enemies have driven us to the edge of the grave.
That’s a deal.
Oh, what an excellent young man!
How many wonderful creatures there are here!
Will it be tonight at supper?
Oh, and monsieur, be careful not to break the honey-sac.
So now everyone will point at me and say, “Look, there goes the wife of that comedian Petruchio—if he could be bothered to marry the pathetic thing!”  
God should keep me from false friends, but they weren’t false.
Curse the day this happened, but it did.
If you hadn’t been their father, your white hair would have inspired in them only compassion.
He’ll wake you up, I bet.
But I do think it’s the husband’s fault if we wives cheat on them.
What’s this?
But in this case of wooing, a child shall father his own father—if my wits don’t fail me.
He’s written you a letter.
If not, leave me alone, and I’ll stay away from your turf.
I can’t go any further, sir.
You love me in spite of your heart, I think.
My memory is hazy, more like a dream than a recollection.
Welcome.
Is something about to happen that warrants working this night and day?
Ratcliffe, come here.
I’m off to visit my friends in Padua—particularly my best friend Hortensio.
Then where would you have me go, Adam?
These two people are as identical as two halves of an apple.
I was talking to some Venetians down by the shore, and the fool showed up.
The strangers are all gone.
Fulvia?
The clock says it’s daytime, but dark night is strangling the sun.
Take up my mistress' gown for his master’s use!
Are my master and his wife coming, Grumio?
We’re following you not only because it is our duty, but also because we want to.
What do you say, Caesar?
tody of them so I can do what’s best out of concern for their honor and the safety of the kingdom.
Why, the one I just told you about.
May God, who is the best matchmaker, join your hearts and realms in one.
It’s always like this in times of change.
Come with me, sir.
Some men don’t like roast pig, others go crazy if they see a cat, and others can’t help urinating when they hear bagpipes.
That huge black cloud over there looks like a filthy liquor jug that’s about to pour out its contents.
In fact, I consider ambition to be so light and airy that it’s only the shadow of a shadow.
I knew that would be your answer.
I’m ready to hear you.
And, moreover, God saw Benedick when he was hid in the garden.
That’s a good thing to put in—it keeps you from getting in trouble with the law.
Some French agents are already at work in our main ports and are on the verge of declaring open war.
No, you won’t get a word out of me.
Uncle of Exeter, release the man who was arrested yesterday for railing against me.
Do you see something wrong with that?
You give your best praise to the worst women.
Come on, Balthasar, let’s hear that song again.
That’s him.
Please tell me.
My dear sir!
I hereby declare we will have no more marriage.
Then get to work, poison!
So young and so cruel?
All I ever did was tell him how hurtful and bad it was.
No!
It’s about you.
My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon, and you, Sir Walter Herbert, are going to stay with me.
She only appears honorable from the outside.
You know, you’re right.
She can turn and turn, and then turn on you again.
I’d rather be a peddler.
Here it is.
Why are you curious, Iago?
Heaven commanded Nature To fill her one body With all the graces that women contain.
I never knew a woman who loved a man so much.
And we will raise your wages.
So could I.
With the quick, intelligent wit she’s rumored to have, she can’t really be such a bad judge of character that she’d refuse a man as exceptional as Signior Benedick.
Richmond is sailing on the sea.
Let’s play billiards.
Did she see you there the whole time, old boy?
My master is being difficult.
Dear God, thank you!
Answer that question.
What’s the matter?
Listen, Dardanius.
I have to do it, I have to do it.
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
Oh, you wicked scoundrel!
That’s the way it goes.
I’ll use it for fish bait.
In an instant we were separated from them, as if in a dream, and brought here in a daze.    
Are you going to Scone?
If you look closely at Alexander’s life, Harry of Monmouth’s stands up fairly well by comparison—for there are analogies in everything.
He’s a knight.
You’re just playing around.
I see.
Go to bed right this minute.
Leave us.
No metal—not even the executioner’s axe—could ever be half as sharp as your hatred.
I’ve been informed by certain sources I can’t disclose that your younger brother Orlando plans to fight me in disguise.
So how can anyone say I’m alone, when the whole world is here to look at me?
Neither?
It may be that his antagonist is a gentleman of very high degree, quite outside of his own sphere.
You’ll be back at two o'clock?
There’s no room for the old man and his followers.
I hear someone coming.
Even someone with a good and virtuous nature might give way to a royal command.
Women are like roses
So will I.
He’s staying in the forest with your father now.
Don’t simply hide your hatred.
The duke is temperamental.
Let four captains carry Hamlet like a soldier onto the stage.
Claudio, take my daughter, and, with her, take my fortunes.
He’s safe, Antony.
Oh noble lord, consider your lineage.
Go to the church
God will protect me.
Nor is it up to you, my lord.
I frown at him, but he still loves me.
I definitely will.
It’s a very sad day.
It’s very hot.
The police are here.
For my part, I’m sorry this battle turned into a drinking match.
You’re doing the right thing.
Hello.
When he opens his wallet to give us our pay, your conscience will fly out?
Gentlemen, let go of him.
Let that be enough for you.
And she can cry, sir—oh, how she can cry!
It’s definitely Maria’s handwriting.
If not, the Fates are on the side of the traitors.
Here’s the east.
It will be as the gods see fit.
I don’t know, ma'am.
I want my bond.
Meanwhile, I’ll get Sir Toby.
It said, “Love me and don’t leave me.” How can you talk about the quality of the poem or the value of the ring?
I’m going to England.
And buried, noble Tyrrel?
You can’t see the future.
And what did Surrey say to that?
This one?
Antonio, you’re under arrest on the orders of Count Orsino.
It was not Caesar’s bravery that conquered Antony but Antony’s that has triumphed over himself.
Do you remember a Venetian scholar and soldier who accompanied the marquess of Montferrat here once when your father was still alive?
Are you satisfied, Jew?
Oh God, Horatio, what a damaged reputation I’m leaving behind me, as no one knows the truth.
I will not live to hear the news from England.
Take care of the lady.
Anyone who says you’re a man must not notice how young you are.
Is supper ready?
I haven’t seen you since you sent me to the Centaur with the gold you gave me.
She said if she were interested in someone, it would be someone who looked like me.
I’m here.
I have thousands of logs to take away and pile up, on strict orders from him.
What are you doing?
Go and get our stuff onto the ship.
Don’t even think about refusing.
It’s your job in life to kill the innocent?
Then my children will probably be illegitimate.
Tell me truthfully, do you love my sister?
End it, then, and everything is over.—Eros!—I’m coming, my Queen!—Eros!—Wait for me.
I’ll go and chat with Paris.
After a little while, I’ll beat him too.
Listen, listen to what I say
I’d rather give myself up to the hatred of a violent brother who refuses to recognize that we are brothers.
He’s a fool and a spendthrift.
Besides, she treats me more respectfully than the other servants.
I’m smart enough to find the logs myself without bothering Peter.
Don’t keep anything back, I insist.
Read it, Mark Antony.
Mercy, mercy!
Do you want my true opinion?
I am an ass, indeed
What do you say?
I would like to prove to you that I am.
Here, Peter Quince.
Then if they’re negligent, we could control them.
And when will you see him again?
Come on, boy.  
No, not at all— All right, all right.
Please, your Grace, tell me what crime I have committed.
No problem, madam.
Come on, get ready.
No, it heals gradually.
I didn’t accuse you of lying.
You have forgotten, and you think it’s a burden when I ask you to walk through the ocean, or run on the north wind, or do business for me underground when the earth’s frozen solid.
You may as well undertake to be hanged.
But how is it possible that Prospero’s alive and well and living on this island?  
I might wake you up in a while to send you on an errand to my brother Cassius.
I’m afraid that may be the case, madam.
My mask is like the roof of the poor 
Let the Egyptians and Phoenicians go swimming.
Caesar hanged him for this service.
And what is that music?
What do you want with her, sir?
Ah, my poor princes!
What, are you going to mock me to my face when I told you not to?
Don’t spoil the justness and virtue of our endeavor nor weaken our own irrepressible spirits by thinking that we need a binding oath, when the blood that every noble Roman contains within him would be proven bastard’s blood if he broke the smallest part of any promise he had made.
Who do you think?
I doubt it.
It’s not right to obey his orders to let him go alone.
It is rather cold, indeed, my lord.
When this wood burns, it’ll weep for making you tired.
Am I your servant?
Whatever you see first when you wake up, think of it as your true love.
No, my lord.
Are they getting rusty?
Pluck off colorful butterfly wings, and use them to fan moonbeams away from his eyes as he sleeps.
It’s too frightened to look at itself.
Say, what’s the trouble?
Wait for mine, sweet soul.
Oh, but I think of him more highly than I say I do—and I wish he looked worse in other women’s eyes.
He’s coming, ma'am.
Here comes his Majesty.
It’s been eleven years since the earthquake.
Get up, I tell you!
You’re so neat and well put-together that you look like you love yourself more than anyone else.
You said those exact things to me back in the marketplace.
The people have heard it already, and they’ve been told of his accusations.
You’re snoring, but it sounds like you’re talking.
Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier; Sir Gilbert Talbot; Sir William Stanley; Oxford; the highly feared Pembroke; Sir James Blunt; Rice ap Thomas, with a valiant crew; and many other famous and powerful noblemen.
I’m sorry about what happened, but I’m sure everything will turn out all right.
She was your boot-wearing mistress and your warrior lover, and now that she’s getting married to Theseus, you’ve come to celebrate their marriage.
Later, in a better world than this, I’d love to get to know you.
By the light of heaven, no, I would not!
I think she’ll be a better soldier.
is yours.” And, though I say so in his presence, if he’s not a friend of the best kings, you’ll find him king of the best friends.
If even then they don’t answer to your satisfaction, you can say that they’re not the men you thought they were.
Six Barbary horses, six French swords with accessories, and three imaginatively designed carriages—sounds like a French bet against the Danish.
Do you really mean that?
I’ve left our luggage on the ship, and I bought the oil, balm, and liquor you wanted.
Not by the likes of you!
You should know this
Wait, look!
First, he sends his regards.
Oh-ho-ho, sir!
Your husband knew about everything.
I followed it here, or I should say it dragged me here.
Yes, but that makes me love you even more.
No, you have to forget all that now.
Come with me now, and help me out.
Kind Tyrrel, will your news make me happy?
My soul is made out of lead, and it’s so heavy it keeps me stuck on the ground so I can’t move.
They’re all welcome.
Double, double toil and trouble, Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
Shame on you!
You stole it from her?
I’ve found it out.
Yes, sir, he’s here at the door right now and asks to see you.
Girls, girls!
That since she’s mad herself, she’s married a madman.
She’ll have to have it.
Why, man?
My soul will keep yours company on the way to heaven.
Please give me that.
Come on—kill me and brag about it!
Let’s go inside and we’ll answer all your questions truthfully.
What do you say to that, Malvolio?
He who chooses me must give and risk all he has.” Must give everything—for what?
There’s no way to read a man’s mind by looking at his face.
My daughter married death.
who can control his fate?
Why, isn’t all this joking better than groaning about love?
Then certain ones.
When they feared death, they escaped with their lives; and now where they imagine they’re safe, they perish.
Everything is gloomy, dark, and dreadful.
Why, then, it’s time to put on my armor and instruct the troops. 
You were a cold crumb on dead Julius Caesar’s plate when I met you.
I know it’s foolish to be so much in love, but I can’t help it.
He’s bound to Octavia.
You’re an insolent little boy.
Step aside.
Though I said my name was Benedick, I heard this news with Claudio’s ears.
I know the man well.
make your eyes jump out of their sockets, and your hair stand on end like porcupine quills.
Tomorrow, and then every day after that.
Fifteen years!
And did you see the handkerchief?
Cry, “whoa!” to your tongue, please.
You think you can get rid of me that easily?
I’ll punish you so harshly that you’ll regret causing me this loss.
I see him revive himself to praise my noble act.
My name is Edgar, and I’m your father’s son.
I can tell you’re furious, but I don’t understand what you’re saying.
I’ll try to calm him down for you if I can.
Pretty, Cupid-like boys stood on either side of her, smiling and cooling her with multicolored fans, which seemed to fan the flames in her cheeks even as they cooled them, undoing what they did.
Do you have the flower?
However your wit and luck allow.
Nice to see you again, Horatio—that is your name, right?
Sir, sir, calm down.
The old king was so overjoyed by this promise that he gave young Fortinbras an annual income of three thousand  I like this news, and when I have time I’ll read this and think about how to reply.
You probably killed a lot of his men?
You may as well try to turn the sun to ice by fanning its face with a peacock feather.
She’s the devil.
The next day I explained all this to him, which was as good as begging his pardon.
It looks like you’ve offended it.
As long as there are 
Be friendly to people but don’t overdo it.
From now on I will, cousin, and I’ll think of all kinds of games for us.
I wish she were in her coffin here, with the ducats in her coffin!
An evil soul using a holy story is like a criminal who smiles at you.
I can tell you, but young Romeo will be older when you find him than he was when you started looking for him.
You can refuse to make me your spouse, but I’ll be your servant whether you want me to or not.
How is my wife?
Don’t say anything bad about wine anymore.
No, let them go.
As far as I know, he’s not even dead.
I think he really is angry.
Mine too.—Are you listening, monster?
Look!
Here’s my servant.
Her body sleeps in the Capulet tomb, and her immortal soul lives with the angels in heaven.
Those of you who are young and active, I beg you to follow them and keep them from doing the crazy things their guilt might push them to do.
So tell me what’s been going on.
It’s fair game to mark a coward.
Oh, don’t injure your cousin like that!
I wish you’d won the  Something bad in that letter is making Bassanio turn pale.
Good night, good boy.
Don’t ask me anything.
Where do you come from?
Is everyone here?
It’s certain that she is dead, and she died in a strange way.
I beg you to tell me your name so I can use it in my prayers.
Just obey me a little bit longer.
Go away and stay apart from me.
I’m watching the play.
Tomorrow’s a good day.
It was just an accident!
I take all responsibility for my decisions.
You’ve never seen anything like it.
Do you recognize this face?
These sweet thoughts relieve me and refresh me, especially when I’m slaving away busily.
I pledged my love to you before you asked me to.
Why are you yelling at me so angrily?
And you saw how the beggar ran from the mutt?
Most powerful lord, my mistress Cleopatra sent me to you.
Here, you goddamn incest-breeding Danish murderer, drink this.
He claimed he knew that, and that’s why he’s come to speak with you.
It’s absurd.
My dear madam, why are you in mourning?
It’s another Hero!
When I have praised Antony, I’ve disparaged Caesar.
Fool, do not flatter yourself.
It’s “never get tired.” Oh!
What kind of loyalty is this?
Or if you haven’t broken away from human company, as my feelings now lead me to do, you haven’t loved.
Show us the way, sir.
I’m telling you, it’s not lost.
You ass!
I swear, she’s a very good-natured lady.
You don’t have more than half an hour to live.
I’ve seen you fight and envied your skill.
Snakes shed their skin there, and the shed skin is wide enough to wrap a fairy in.
I like this girl!
Shall I stay in this dreary world, which is no better than a pigsty without you?
Are you crazy?
My Lord of Warwick, a most corrupt treason—God be praised for it!—has been discovered, as plain as any you’d hope to see on a summer’s day.
Oh God, I wish the two of them were alive and living in Naples, as king and queen!
I  Let’s not break the law by starting a fight.
The privilege of never seeing me again.
I’ll leave him alone.
I say it’s the moon that shines so bright.
I’m like the one sick sheep in the flock, the one who deserves to die.
You liar, you respond better to the whip than to kindness!
It’s only for your willing and receptive ear.
I’ll make her come right away, I promise you.
Ready.
Farewell.
Little birds do it, and dragonflies copulate right in front of me.
I know I may be old, but I’m strong and healthy, because in my youth I never drank nor lived recklessly.
A soldier is just a tool, like his sword, unless he has your qualities, Ventidius.
Hold your tongue.
If you’re a virgin, you’ll answer this question.
Finally, the ceremony done, he called for wine.
If she’s lying, I pray that I never sleep again at night or wake up during the day.
Did you see the weird sisters?
There are ten thousand— Geese, you idiot?
No, Kate?
But suppose I did all the things you named out of love for her.
Someone who can ride fast, go to the duke of  Here, my good lord.
Will you come with me?
No, my lord.
Good morning to you, friend.
When we’re in love, we don’t see with our eyes but with our minds.
I’ll read you a sermon.
He must be wearing this crazy outfit for some reason.
The hell with order!
So have a seat and talk to her.
Why, she’s inside.
No, keep going, old man; don’t stop like that.
Yes, from top to bottom, sir.
Go release them, Ariel.
I beg you, daughter, don’t make me crazy.
I didn’t.
Quiet!
One more thing, sir.
I am no tyrant but a Christian king, whose emotions are as tightly controlled as the wretches who languish in our prisons.
As long as hell and Richard want it.
Take him away!
And now I’ll do it. 
Really?
Well, we’ll see how you act.
I would have met you by sea and again by land.
There’s a nice reason why the constellation Pleiades has only seven stars in it.
My husband will never get a moment’s rest, I’ll keep him up at night talking about you until he runs out
Kate is as straight and slender as a hazel-twig, her hair as brown as hazelnut shells, and she herself sweeter than the kernels.
I hope this explanation will stand as my excuse.
Doesn’t everyone want a wife like that?
What was it that you told me today—that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
Come, come.
I’ll stop by before you go to bed, and tell you what I’ve heard.
My dream told me that dreamers often lie.
A strange fish.
A veteran commander and a very kind gentleman.
Madam, your mother wants to talk to you.
I will either get you out, lying if I have to, or stay in prison in your place.
Since it’s drizzling, stand under this overhang with me and, like a true drunk, I’ll tell you everything.
Why, what a complicated case this is!
For the sake of our old friendship, I ask you, hold my sword handle while I run on it.
Dear Sir Toby, don’t do anything rash tonight.
If you refuse me, the laws of Venice have no validity.
Macbeth.
Right now, my pressing business calls me away.
Why should we do this?
Hello, sir.
It’s the smartest partition I’ve ever heard speak, my lord.
I have neither cleverness nor rhetorical skill nor the authority nor gesture nor eloquence nor the power of speech to stir men up.
A greater power than we can fight has ruined our plan.
What seems sweet to him now will soon turn bitter.
And even though you know I’m very close to the Prince and Claudio, I swear I’ll keep your counsel and deal with this secretly and justly.
But you’re too good a friend for me to wish her on you.
I’m sure there was a herd of lions nearby.
I heard that Apollodorus carried—   What did he carry, please?
Here’s a sick man who wants to speak with you.
It’s a deal!
Meet me down at the harbor.—Come here.
I want to forget what I am.
You’ll see, I promise you.
Help, dear lord, or the battle will be lost!
They grow like savages—like soldiers who meditate on nothing but blood—surrounded by swearing and stern looks, ragged clothing and everything unnatural.
No, with Demetrius.
Welcome.
The last time I was in Exeter, the mayor kindly showed me the castle there and called it “ My lord!
She trembled and shook because he stamped and swore and carried on as though the vicar were trying to put something over on him.
It’s a shame that you walk the streets with all the honest men.
Signor Valentio and his cousin Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.” That’s a nice group of people.
Please, Signior Gremio.
Why?
He’d really be your proxy if he married you.
What’s all the noise in here?
Now start the music, and sing the solemn hymn.
Go and get her dressed.
King Edward was going to marry Lady Lucy—your mother can vouch for that—and then he was betrothed to Bona, the King of France’s sister-in-law.
But you turn that sun into a shadow.
We’ll listen to him.
A woman more beautiful than the one I love?
Yes ,madam.
He’s in Athens, my lord.
My brother is imprisoned because of you, I am disgraced, and the nobility are held in contempt while those who two days ago weren’t worth a dime have suddenly been promoted.
So, listen, Hermia.
But, oh no!
It’s a wonder you didn’t lose your life and your mind all at once.—He’s waking up.
Varrus and Claudio!
If it’s for me, don’t keep it from me.
What would you like, Laertes?
And who can help thinking how monstrous it was for Malcolm and Donalbain to kill their gracious father?
That’s enough for me, then.
Take them away.
Well done!
Give him my respects, and tell him I’ll definitely be there for dinner, since I know he has gone to great lengths for this meal.
She’s as dead as the cold ground.
Look, let’s stay here tonight.
I can be discreet in honorable matters, ride a horse, run, tell a good story badly, and deliver a plain message bluntly.
Give me your hand, and explain your situation to me.
If it is, I suggest you don’t eat it.
But how?
Everything I am and everything I have now belongs to you.
Oh, sad day!
She can’t hurt you, Helena.
If you hope to have your sins forgiven by Christ’s dear blood, which He shed for our terrible sins, you must leave and keep your hands off me.
Down with the Capulets!
I spoke with a Frenchman yesterday who said that a Venetian ship loaded with treasure was wrecked in the English Channel.
What?
Now I realize your brother tried to kill your father not just because your brother is an evil man, but because your father deserved it by being wicked himself.
Let’s stay and watch a while.
I don’t think you’ve got much of a reason to love me.
Yes, this is what love does.
That these crimes are punished so quickly is proof.
If you mutiny against me, I’ll hang you from the next tree.
Let’s dance to “You Jerk.” You mean, “Shut up, you jerk”?
Do you really speak like such a gentleman?
You kiss like you’ve studied how.
What’s keeping you?
My noble kinsman, welcome.
I don’t believe it.
Listen, my lords— We’re in a bit of a hurry, Leonato.
And how would we go about doing that?
I can assure you that no enemy will ever take the noble Brutus alive.
Now in the factory of thought, create the image of all London pouring forth into the streets.
Here’s the money you wanted, master.
Oh, please, tell us, sir.
Please rise, Queen.
Very obedient—keep crying.—Concerning this—oh, what fake emotion!—I am being ordered home—Get away from me, I’ll send for you later.—Sir, I’ll obey the order and return to Venice.
So you’re around Lady Luck’s waist?
Three thousand ducats for three months, and Antonio will guarantee it.
Stop advising me; your words pass through my ears like water through a sieve.
Sir, don’t even try to beat me in a battle of wits.
Kent can speak rudely when Lear goes mad.
Keep going, keep going, or I’ll declare myself the winner.
Your request came at a time when the poisonous effects of reveling caused me to be unaware of my own actions.
So, goodbye.
All this is comforting news.
I’ll miss you, Ariel, but you’ll be free.—Yes, you will, yes.—Go to the king’s ship in your invisible state.
Don’t listen to him, Emilia, even though he’s your husband.
There’s no reason to be afraid.
It is, it is.
So I guess it’s you, you silver treasure house.
I’ll stop your mouth with a kiss.
Let it go.
That’s where hell is, and darkness, and fires and stench!
Listen to this.
Come on. 
And if your love can produce something from its sadness, write a poem for her; hang it on her grave and sing it to her bones.
He is.
So you couldn’t see his face, then?
Ah, here comes my messenger.—What’s going on, you crazy spirit?
Is the news good or bad that you enter without knocking?
Come on, show me the wound that my eyes have caused.
I had planned to celebrate it quietly, but since my lord is once more himself, I will be Cleopatra again.
Let’s go, Tom.
No, don’t.
Tell him to bring his pen and his inkwell to the jail.
I’m sure you aren’t Launcelot, my boy.
No, sir.
Why do you care that he loves Hermia?
But goodbye.
Investigate how this foul murder came about.
Call Claudio and some of my other men.
There is nothing on Earth that is so evil that it does not provide the earth with some special quality.
If you’re Launcelot, then you’re my own flesh and blood.
It’s obvious to everyone that you’ve tricked her, drugged her, or kidnapped her.
You scolded me often for loving Rosaline.
Hymen brought her from heaven Yes, brought her here.
Why bother with them?
Oh, Lord, this makes me laugh!
We all expect a nice answer from you, Jew.
It’s midnight.
If you thought that you’d be thinking too much.
I will, my lady, but a sane person reading this would make it sound crazy.
So did I.
I’m Trinculo—don’t be scared—your good friend Trinculo.
They’re saying I’d be an animal without a heart if I stayed home today out of fear.
Oh, sir, impetuous people learn their lessons from the consequences of their foolish actions.
Stay and tell me more.
If you send them word that you won’t come, they might change their minds.
Your grace, the person who is going to deliver the prologue is ready.
May heaven bless you.
Show it!
Then I’ll change it to this
Otherwise I would have been perfect, as solid as a piece of marble, as firm as a rock, as free as the air itself.
In what sense, my lord?
It’s my exercise time.
Fool!
You lie, you disgusting tyrant.
I must go to his house and tell his wife that he came bursting into my place like a lunatic and stole my ring.
With Cassio?
Why do you say that?
Let’s pray that we never come into conflict like that again.
Those island-bred skeletons, terrified for their bones, are an offensive sight on the morning field.
If I’m going to sing along with you, I need to know what key you’re singing in.
Oh, I’m talking too loud.—Where’s Malvolio?
Silly babbler, how you talk!
toward his own father who loves him so completely.
Which of you does not tremble when you see me?
No, let’s follow him.
I found this pinned to my tent this morning.  
Read the will.
What brings him here?
But there’s more work to be done.
My noble king, my friends have informed me that Sir Edward Courtney and his brother, the haughty Bishop of Exeter, are now in  My king, the Guildfords in  My lord, the duke of Buckingham’s army— Enough, you 
I had a dream last night about the three witches.
You see, we’re not alone in our unhappiness.
Has he ever tested out these ideas on you before?
He made this rope ladder to be a highway to my bed, but I am a virgin, and I will die a virgin and a widow.
She’s a lot like you.
Oh, goodbye to my peace of mind!
Come on, you’re being too hard on yourself.
For you to do it would be good service.
Who will thank us now?
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding day.
He is as full of courage as of kindness, princely in both.
I wish you had told me you had a different father.
Men who risk everything hope to make profits.
Let them start something.
Is he enough of a man to wear a hat and grow a beard ?
That’s merciful but a bit careless.
Who’s in there?
Go now, Lord Constable and all you princes, and quickly bring us news of England’s defeat.
No thanks, my good mother.
And harm is getting close!
Lovely Katherine, if you will love me well with your French heart, I’m happy to hear you confess it in broken English.
The sky’s so dark it looks like it would rain down boiling hot tar if the sea weren’t swelling up to the sky to put its fire out.
Heaven knows I am.
We used to think so too.
My father instructed you in his will to give me a good education.
Oh, wait, sir.
Not at all!
Ever since I’ve been a free agent in my choice of friends, I’ve chosen you because you take everything life hands you with calm acceptance, grateful for both good and bad.
Their messengers are ready, waiting to deliver our response in these matters.
Oh, damn three times, damn ten times the evil man whose wicked deed deprived you of your ingenious mind.
Can you imagine being hitched to a lump of clay?
You’ll see that Caesar is giving you no reason to do so.
Sir, my king, don’t waste your time mulling over how strange this business is.
May God choose you to receive his grace.
Oh, really?
Give him the goblet.
What have you two sisters done?
My story does raise that question.
This is a rotten song to sing at a man’s funeral.
I swear, anyone smart who laughs at these courts jesters is nothing but a jester’s apprentice.
Strange and terrible events are all welcome, but I despise comforts.
I won’t take it back.
Indeed, before he fell down, when he realized the commoners were glad he refused the crown, he pulled open his robe and offered them his throat to cut.
And I’ve built two chapels where solemn priests sing continually for Richard’s soul.
I’ll be right next to you.
I’m putting myself in God’s hands, and with his help I plan to fight against the secret plot that caused this treasonous murder.
My Lord High Constable, the English lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents.
My dear Gloucester!
Yet he seems capable.
Let’s fall on our swords.
She was utterly true to you!
You are what’s left of the noblest man that ever lived.
I’m satisfied.
But I still believe that his madness was caused by unrequited love.—Hello, Ophelia.
The woman I love is beautiful.
Come on.
I’ve heard many of the noblest Romans—next to immortal Caesar—speaking of you, complaining of the tyranny of today’s government, and wishing that your eyes were working better.
Now, by my mother’s son, and that’s me, it will be moon or star or whatever I want before I’ll travel to your father’s house.
Stanley dreamed the boar beheaded him, and I laughed and refused to flee with him.
How are you, madam?
What’s her skin like?
Okay, but please not before me.
But why should my reputation for honor last longer than my honor did?
There’s only one body here.
Good idea.
I won’t pretend to be the devil’s porter anymore.
The original story was written in the finest Italian.
Tunis has never had such a beautiful queen.
If we are slated to die, the fewer, the better for our country, and if we’re slated to live, the fewer men, the greater the share of honor for each of us.
You see how the world goes, Volumnius.
You’re pale and trembling.
Let’s proceed.
Let go of my hand.
He saved me the trouble
I wish you could tell him I saved his brother.
Tell him I’ll take the leek out of his hat on Saint Davy’s Day and slap his head with it.
What I’m saying is, your jealousy has pushed your husband away from his sanity.
I can tell you who time strolls for, who it trots for, who it gallops for, and who it stops cold for.
Do this immediately, and don’t stop searching and interrogating until you’ve brought home these foolish runaways.
Yeah, so?
I didn’t order it.
It looks to me like it’s burning in the Capulet tomb.
It would be a pretty stingy love if it could be counted and calculated.
If you killed Lysander while he was sleeping, then you’re already up to your ankles in blood.
It cannot be.
Both you and the king might have ordered us to execute your command, instead of asking us so politely.
No more foolish talk.
I wish I could see that man someday!
What are you going to tell her, Nurse?
We’ll do what you want us to, my lord.
Kind gentlemen, I won’t forget the trouble you’ve taken for me whenever I think of this day.
There comes an old man with his three sons— It sounds like the beginning of an old folktale.
Ah, he got you back, Benedick!
You force me to read the will, then?
Oh, what a horrible day!
Shut the doors after you.
Yes.
Bring her out, brother.
The wind blew down through the chimneys where we were sleeping.
And here he is.
Here’s Romeo’s man.
Take in the wheeled canons with their deadly gaping mouths trained on the walled city of Harfleur.
I’ll tell my husband what you’ve said, Launcelot.
Let’s talk.
In that case, leave our cousin Katherine here with us.
For no man, sir.
But I’m sorry I’ve blurted all this out.
I’m afraid my Thisbe has forgotten her promise!—And you, oh Wall, oh sweet, oh lovely Wall, you stand between her father’s property and mine, you Wall, oh Wall, oh sweet and lovely Wall.
Take care of the queen!
Well, good luck!
Can I do what all the Parthian arrows, though shot by enemies, could not?
We came into the world as brother and brother, so now let’s enter hand in hand—not one before the other.
Where did you learn that song, Fool?
Sir, I know you, and I trust you enough to share something very important with you.
And don’t lie.
That duke who lives nearby is courting her.
I have to follow him and give him the letter.
Which one of them should I pick?
Welcome, my friends.
They say that this town is full of deception—illusionists that can fool the eye, dark sorcerers who can bewitch your mind, soul-killing witches who can disfigure your body, disguised swindlers, fast-talking fakers, and all kinds of other unchecked sins.
He’s too argumentative for me.
You don’t know why we came to visit you— Yes, and so unexpectedly, at night.
A little bit.
I don’t want to go mad.
I’ll tell you what, Prince
Goodbye.
But he told me to get lost and threatened to hit me, kick me—even kill me.
I was told that by one who knows him better than you.
The testament!
If you love Rosalind as much as you say you do, you will marry her when your brother marries Aliena.
I’ll stay in Messina until you’re married, and then I’ll go to Aragon.
We’ve been betrayed!
But here come some people, right in the nick of time.  
Look, it’s waving me over again.
In Sicyon.
You’ll see.
Let me say “amen” quickly, before the devil comes in and stops my prayer—because here comes the devil, disguised as a Jew.
Was it mine?
If we let crimes like this happen, slaves and heathens will be our rulers.
That’s already been done, sir.
I hope to God he keeps his promise!
Sir, here’s the Queen.
Goodbye.
You can’t stay here any longer.
Good night, my lord.
And what did he say?
What have I ever done that he has anything to complain about?
Bring out the stocks!
What is it, Octavia?
Why, so did you.
Now I know better.
I wish you all the best.
Gentle Octavia, support the one that supports you.
Ma'am, you wouldn’t treat me like this if I were your father’s dog.
Hey, Brabantio!
Look, sir, here comes the lady walking toward my cell.
This is the inventory of the money, silverware, dishes, and jewels that are still in my possession.
Have you written that down, that they aren’t criminals?
Be patient, I’m telling you.
What a long night this is!
Dolabella.
So, possessing neither a voice nor a heart for flattery, I can’t awaken the spirit of love in her so as to make him appear in his true likeness.
Every month he has a new best friend.
Go quickly—hurry—to the castle, for I’ve given orders to have Lear and Cordelia killed.
He lost both, my lord.—Ma'am, this letter is from your sister, and needs an immediate answer.  
That’s true, sir.
Banquo and Donalbain, Malcolm!
I’m just worried that you’ve been cozying up to her, and gotten intimate with her.
He just said that they’re no good at acting.
How short am I?
I’m very sick, too.
Let it be.
I’ve never known any woman or seen a woman’s face—except my own in the mirror.
No–the law goes further
Now he lies there worth nothing, and no one is so humble as to show him respect.
Who’s there?
I need a doctor.
Let me see your eyes.
It was tossed into the window of my room.
Get yourself to a 
Horatio, tell me something.
How can you square things with me?
I loved this man so much it makes me weep.
I’ve already had a glass of wine tonight, watered down, but look how drunk I am.
Oh, be quiet.
The more I pray, the less I get out of it.
So that means she’ll come.
There’s a lot to learn when a fool recites the words of a madman.
Where is that messenger?
But let it go.—Now, Litio, it’s your turn.
I’m too young to remember anything like it.
I know him well by reputation.
I swear, I could do so much— Please, no more.
My master is the great and rich Capulet, and if you don’t belong to the house of Montague, please come and drink a cup of wine.
