Like her?
What is ’t you seek?
Answer me directly.
Mend” me, thou saucy fellow? 
No more!
If I had, my weapon should quickly have been out, I warrant you.
And is it thus?
Indeed?
He and Lepidus are at Caesar’s house.
Come, sir.
These things to hear Would Desdemona seriously incline.
Take that of me, my friend, who have the power  To seal th' accuser’s lips.
I conjure thee by all the saints in heaven.
And I do think—or else this brain of mine Hunts not the trail of policy so sure As it hath used to do—that I have found The very cause of Hamlet’s lunacy.
Who’s there?
Ratcliffe, come hither.
Thou shalt not be the worse for me
And but my noble Moor Is true of mind and made of no such baseness As jealous creatures are, it were enough To put him to ill thinking.
Spare not for the cost.
Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night.
Moody?
The old man and his people Cannot be well bestowed.
Thy gown?
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her.
O, never Shall sun that morrow see!
I’ll plague him.
Speak this no more.
Husband, let’s follow to see the end of this ado.
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman?
I thank his Grace.
Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve; We in your motion turn, and you may move us.
Here I am.
Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more than any man in all Venice.
Of what, lady?
Portia, art thou gone?
Come, bustle, bustle.
Of Mantua.
You see how easily she may be surprised.
Alas, I rather hate myself For hateful deeds committed by myself.
Stanley, look to your wife.
We must have your doublet and hose plucked over your head and show the world what the bird hath done to her own nest.
But one cup.
What are you?
Tomorrow will it please you to be crowned?
As you are old and reverend, should be wise.
Good morrow, neighbor Baptista.
But know that I have tonight wooed Margaret, the Lady Hero’s gentlewoman, by the name of Hero.
Oh, much I fear some ill unthrifty thing.
Old fashions please me best.
Come hither, Catesby.
When have I injured thee?
Varrus and Claudio!
Come by and by to my chamber.
Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
When Nature hath made a fair creature, may she not by Fortune fall into the fire?
They shall, Nerissa, but in such a habit That they shall think we are accomplishèd With that we lack.
Thus the bowl should run, And not unluckily against the bias.
Why, what else?
And I must be from thence!
Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence, Here to unfold (though lately we intended To keep in darkness what occasion now Reveals before ’tis ripe) what thou dost know Hath newly passed between this youth and me.
Thy love?
One unperfectness shows me another, to make me frankly despise myself.
We shall have a rare letter from him
Why, would that have mended my hair?
Why wither not the leaves that want their sap?
Music such as charmeth sleep!
I have them ready.
O vengeance!
Caesar is touched.
I will reward thee Once for thy sprightly comfort and tenfold For thy good valor.
This day I breathed first.
Antonio shall become bound, well.
Let’s hear it.
One stroke Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest.
For Pyramus therein doth kill himself.
I wot well where he is.
I knew a wench married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit, and so may you, sir.
How goes the world, sir, now?
Up to some scaffold, there to lose their heads.
Now are we well prepared to know the pleasure Of our fair cousin Dauphin, for we hear Your greeting is from him, not from the king.
May ’t please your highness sit.
Oh, is this he?
But let that go.
Dar’st thou resolve to kill a friend of mine?
Under the earth.
And for his dreams, I wonder he’s so simple To trust the mock'ry of unquiet slumbers.
Why, how now, daughter Katherine?
What men may do!
Have you writ down that they are none?
My father’s loss, the weakness which I feel, The wrack of all my friends, nor this man’s threats, To whom I am subdued, are but light to me, Might I but through my prison once a day Behold this maid.
You mistake, sir, you mistake, sir.
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes, I will be brief
No marvel then, though he were ill affected.
I never was nor never will be false.
Go call him hither.
I would give all my fame for a pot of ale, and safety.
At least two glasses.
I have a file Of all the gentry.
I had thought t’ have held it poor; but since my lord Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
For Monsieur Malvolio, let me alone with him.
Is it for him you do envy me so?
Lucillius and Titinius, bid the commanders Prepare to lodge their companies tonight.
Upon my sword.
What should the wars do with these jigging fools?
Let us not leave him out.
No matter, since They have left their viands behind, for we have stomachs.
Nay, indeed if you had your eyes, you might fail of the knowing me.
I will deserve your pains.
You have some cause; they have not.
And, good lieutenant, I think you think I love you.
Men should be what they seem, Or those that be not, would they might seem none!
Come, talk not of her.
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
It is no mean happiness, therefore, to be seated in the mean.
I do beseech you— Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers— What is your name?
Do not torment me.
Verona’s summer hath not such a flower.
I take it your own business calls on you And you embrace th' occasion to depart.
Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than I, where would you choose it?
Ay, past all surgery.
Tedious” and “brief”?
Faith, I’ll home tomorrow, Sir Toby.
Tis noble spoken.
You do advance your cunning more and more.
Tell me, Othello.
I shall do’t, my lord.
Spout, rain!
O, if thou be’st the same Egeon, speak, And speak unto the same Emilia.
So are the Prince and Claudio, who accused her Upon the error that you heard debated.
So take her to thee, shepherd.
Tis paltry to be Caesar.
Fly And make your peace with Caesar.
For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale, Say what thou canst, I’ll go along with thee.
Get me some poison, Iago, this night.
Within these ten days if that thou beest found So near our public court as twenty miles, Thou diest for it.
You are my true and honorable wife, As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart.
Or wilt thou hunt?
What with a torch!
And on the answer, he pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they step on.
That with this little arm and this good sword I have made my way through more impediments Than twenty times your stop.
I prithee, turn aside and weep for her.
Sir, a word ere you go.
It is impossible you should see this, Were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys, As salt as wolves in pride, and fools as gross As ignorance made drunk.
Mine was not bridled.
Brief let me be.
I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it Nor pluck it from his finger for the wealth That the world masters.
Hob, nob, is his word.
I’ll have her, but I will not keep her long.
I bring thee tidings of the Prince’s doom.
Was ’t not to this end That thou began’st to twist so fine a story?
For the one, I have neither words nor measure; and for the other, I have no strength in measure, yet a reasonable measure in strength.
A pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham, Is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.
If only to go warm were gorgeous, Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear’st, Which scarcely keeps thee warm.
Thanks for that.
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting That would not let me sleep.
All the world desires her.
Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on, Behold her topped?
Do not doubt, Cassio, But I will have my lord and you again As friendly as you were.
Peace, doting wizard, peace.
Therefore our everlasting farewell take.
My good friends, I’ll leave you till night.
Alas, she hath from France too long been chased, And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps, Corrupting in its own fertility.
Certainly, sir, I can.
Were I in England now, as once I was, and had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver.
Regan, I think you are.
Tis strange.
Give me.
Is that the uttermost?
Methinks I see my cousin’s ghost Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body Upon a rapier’s point.
That eye that told you so looked but asquint.
Here comes Kent.
Ay, more.
Thy Brutus bid me give it thee, and I Will do his bidding.
Why he more than another?
Believe what?
would you create me new?
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
Was he not here?
What need’st thou run so many mile about When thou mayst tell thy tale the nearest way?
I will not fail you.
It is not lost, but what and if it were?
Kill!
What?
So do I, my lord.
Bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the jail.
How long hath this possession held the man?
Even now, sir.
Why, I think so.
Yet if thou say Antony lives, is well, Or friends with Caesar, or not captive to him, I’ll set thee in a shower of gold and hail Rich pearls upon thee.
His eyes were green as leeks.
Thou must know, ’Tis not my profit that does lead mine honor; Mine honor, it.
The man is innocent.
Ay, but the mustard is too hot a little.
Parted you in good terms?
Nay, you need not fear us, Lorenzo.
Look, how she rubs her hands.
He is not the flower of courtesy, but, I’ll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb.
So he laughed and let me go.
And you.
I would have him nine years a-killing.
Shall I attend your Grace?
Signor Antonio?
Are you yet determined Today to marry with my brother’s daughter?
She will not.
Why, then Othello and Desdemona return again to Venice.
My tale provokes that question.
Tis neither here nor there.
The other half comes to the general state, Which humbleness may drive unto a fine.
It is a reeling world indeed, my lord, And I believe will never stand upright Till Richard wear the garland of the realm.
Seest thou this sweet sight?
I have no will to wander forth of doors, Yet something leads me forth.
Then hie you hence to Friar Lawrence’s cell.
Thou art a villain to impeach me thus.
Bettering thy loss makes the bad causer worse.
Gracious my lord, I should report that which I say I saw, But know not how to do ’t.
My master, not myself, lacks recompense.
Let pride, which she calls plainness, marry her.
Yet fortune cannot recompense me better Than to die well, and not my master’s debtor.
What should I do?
I should venture purgatory for ’t.
So I hope.
They pray; grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
And a good soldier too, lady.
This is the very painting of your fear.
Some others search.
Ay, sir, I thank God.
And will she yet abase her eyes on me, That cropped the golden prime of this sweet prince And made her widow to a woeful bed?
Madam!
First, he commends him to your noble self.
Better it were they all came by his father, Or by the father there were none at all, For emulation who shall now be nearest Will touch us all too near if God prevent not.
Therefore we’ll have some half a dozen friends, And there an end.
To bed?
The law that threatened death becomes thy friend And turns it to exile—there art thou happy.
Why not, my lord?
Brutus, my lord.
I think not of them.
His father, though I say ’t, is an honest exceeding poor man and, God be thanked, well to live.
I’ll call upon you ere you go to bed And tell you what I know.
Marry, that, I think, be young Petruchio.
Where should they be set else?
How intend you, “practiced”?
Well, I will be so much a sinner, to be a double-dealer.
Fare you well, sir.
If their purgation did consist in words, They are as innocent as grace itself.
So please you, he is here at the door and importunes access to you.
And I have reason for it.
And I for Rosalind.
I’ll after him, and see the event of this.
If it be, sir, I pray you, eat none of it.
I am not guilty of Lysander’s blood.
Then, in God’s name, march.
Therefore give out you are of Epidamnum, Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate.
In one voyage Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis; And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife Where he himself was lost; Prospero, his dukedom In a poor isle; and all of us, ourselves When no man was his own.
It did, it did.
What wicked and dissembling glass of mine Made me compare with Hermia’s sphery eyne?
Ill spirit, I would hold more talk with thee.
 the older I grow the better I’ll look.
I heard him say, Brutus and Cassius Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome.
So young, my lord, and true.
Why, no.
He would not?
What, is there such a place?
Madam!
Follow”?
Caesar and Lepidus Are in the field.
Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes And still conclusion, shall acquire no honor Demuring upon me.
What is your will that I shall do with this?
But art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion?
Now, then, we’ll use His countenance for the battle, which being done, Let her who would be rid of him devise His speedy taking off.
Where’s Monsieur Cobweb?
Lady!
Then you must say “I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.” I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.
I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
Fore heaven, an excellent song.
I must attend the duke at dinner.
What noise is this?
The Moor hath killed my mistress!
Strike on the tinder, ho!
You must sing  This nothing’s more than matter.
The sun is high, and we outwear the day.
Royal Egypt, Empress!
The king, sir, hath laid that in a dozen passes between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits.
You always end with a jade’s trick.
It was, as I have seen it in his life, A sable silvered.
Come, come, you froward and unable worms!
Make it so known.
He says his name is Master Fer.
Take your time.
I pray thee tell me truly how thou lik’st her.
Mercutio’s kinsman, noble County Paris.
Why, that’s my dainty Ariel.
Thou must not take my former sharpness ill.
But did I never speak of all that time?
The duke and senators of Venice greet you.
Bid every noise be still.
That?
I am so.
Whither goest thou?
But other of your insolent retinue Do hourly carp and quarrel, breaking forth In rank and not-to-be-endurèd riots.
I speak to thee plain soldier.
Had not that been as proper?
What dogs are these!
You do but dally.
To what base uses we may return, Horatio.
There is no harm intended to your person, Nor to no Roman else.
My lord of Orléans, and my Lord High Constable, you talk of horse and armor?
You would all this time have proved there is no time for all things.
We’ll go to supper i' th' morning.
But in respect of that, I would fain think it were not.
Yet she must die, else she’ll betray more men.
But when they should endure the bloody spur, They fall their crests and, like deceitful jades, Sink in the trial.
To Caesar will I render My legions and my horse.
And by all means stir on the youth to an answer.
God rest you merry, sir.
The French is gone off, look you, and there is gallant and most prave passages.
A good epithet!
I reasoned with a Frenchman yesterday, Who told me, in the narrow seas that part The French and English, there miscarried A vessel of our country richly fraught.
How’s that?
My father was no traitor.
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied.
I cannot fly, But, bearlike, I must fight the course.
I will ask him for my place again, he shall tell me I am a drunkard.
Everyone hears that That can distinguish sound.
Lucius, awake.
But nature should bring forth Of its own kind all foison, all abundance, To feed my innocent people.
I will bestow you where you shall have time To speak your bosom freely.
Even here Do we shake hands.
She well instructs me.
I’ll fish for thee and get thee wood enough.
Com’st thou again for ransom?
What say you to a neat’s foot?
Live, and hereafter say A madman’s mercy bid thee run away.
And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true.
What the goodyear, my lord, why are you thus out of measure sad?
Romeo.
Then must I think you would not have it so.
That villain cousin would have killed my husband.
 under an oak tree—whose lower branches were mossy with age and top branches ancient and brittle—he saw a wretched beggar, with overgrown hair and beard, asleep on his back.
If he will take it, so.
Are there no stones in heaven But what serve for the thunder?—Precious villain!
Show ’s the way, sir.
It is the rival of my love.
Bar Harry England, that sweeps through our land With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur.
Nay, let me praise you while I have a stomach.
There’s nothing in her yet.
O treachery!
Take it thankfully.
Now, Eros.
I would know that.
What shall be our sport, then?
Find out moonshine, find out moonshine!
Caesar’s better parts Shall be crowned in Brutus!
But, soft!
You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes.
O true, good Catesby.
What Tranio did, myself enforced him to.
Those uncles which you want were dangerous.
No doubt, my lord.
Come to me, that of this I may speak more.
Ho, open the door.
Fare you well.
Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave My heart into my mouth.
He is ready at the door.
My good knave Eros, now thy captain is Even such a body.
What o' that?
Good sooth, even thus.
If thou dost play with him at any game, Thou art sure to lose, and of that natural luck He beats thee ’gainst the odds.
Treason has done his worst; nor steel nor poison, Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing Can touch him further.
My lord, from head to foot.
Yonder comes my master, your brother.
I am very sorry that you are not well.
Tis new to thee.
What cheer, my love?— Demetrius and Egeus, go along.
I’ll lay fourteen of my teeth—and yet, to my teen be it spoken, I have but four—she is not fourteen.
Come, more, another stanzo.
Out o' your wits and hearing too?
Ten masts at each make not the altitude Which thou hast perpendicularly fell.
Upon what sickness?
She will indite him to some supper.
Tis almost fairy time.
Your castle is surprised, your wife and babes Savagely slaughtered.
I am poisoned.
An your ladyship will have it as it ought to be, you must allow  Prithee, read i' thy right wits.
Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes, Which after-hours give leisure to repent.
I repent me much That so I harried him.
Give you good night.
Hoo!
He needs as many, sir, as Caesar has, Or needs not us.
O blessèd, blessèd night!
Long since thy husband served me in my wars, And I to thee engaged a prince’s word, When thou didst make him master of thy bed, To do him all the grace and good I could.
Good morrow, Catesby.— You may jest on, but, by the Holy Rood, I do not like these several councils, I.
An ’t be any way, it must be with valor, for policy I hate.
There’s two or three of us have seen strange sights.
Stood the state so?
Go sleep, and hear us.
And what of him, Tranio?
I will desire you to live in the meantime and eat your victuals.
Gentle Octavia, Let your best love draw to that point which seeks Best to preserve it.
Here he comes with your niece.
What art thou that keep’st me out from the house I owe?
If the matter of this paper be certain, you have mighty business in hand.
At this hour Lie at my mercy all mine enemies.
Will you go? 
Say that I slew them not.
Back do I toss these treasons to thy head, With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart—
What do you think Of marching to Philippi presently?
And ere I take this charm from of her sight— As I can take it with another herb— I’ll make her render up her page to me.
Zounds, sir, you’re robbed!
Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain.
She shall, Lucentio.
A blessèd labor, my most sovereign lord.
Reputation, reputation, reputation!
Thou hast served me with much faith.
There is no other way.
O Bottom, thou art changed!
I will but spend a word here in the house And go with you.
Never to speak of this that you have seen.
My child, my only life, Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!— Help, help!
I cannot make you what amends I would; Therefore accept such kindness as I can.
The one, to save the money that he spends in tiring; the other, that at dinner they should not drop in his porridge.
In Venice they do let God see the pranks They dare not show their husbands.
D'elbow.”      “D'elbow,”    “De nick,”  “De nick.”  “De chin.” “De sin.”       
Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend, More hideous when thou show’st thee in a child Than the sea monster.
Of whence, I pray?
His eyes are humbler than they used to be.
Sad, lady!
Go, vanish into air, away!
Three thousand ducats for three months, and Antonio bound.
It should seem then that Dobbin’s tail grows backward.
I choose her for myself.
You need not fear, lady, the having any of these lords.
Well, my good lord, I have informed them so.
This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven Than thou wast worthy her.
Where be these knaves?
I have a health for you.
I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys. 
 If there’s a buck who needs a doe Tell him Rosalind will do.
The gods withhold me!
Beshrew me but I love her heartily.
I go to take my stand To see him pass on to the Capitol.
No, my lord, I saw nothing.
This foul Egyptian hath betrayèd me.
Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke’s daughter, be banished with her father?
O thou pernicious caitiff!
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
He passes some humors and careers.
It is something of my negligence, nothing of my purpose.
Give me leave, Caesar.
I pray you, one of you question yond man, if he for gold will give us any food.
Wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this country.
Will not the mayor then and his brethren come?
And only in that safety died her brothers.
Speak not against it.
Follow me, lady.— Turn out that eyeless villain.
Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause, Lest I be laughed at when I tell them so.
You have trained me like a peasant, obscuring and hiding from me all gentlemanlike qualities.
Prithee, peace.
No offense i' th' world.
What, Pindarus!
Those of his chamber, as it seemed, had done ’t.
So delicate with her needle, an admirable musician.
Till then sit still, my soul.
Go look after him.
My lady will hang thee for thy absence.
Well roared, Lion!
Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears, That long time have been barren.
But do not look for further recompense Than thine own gladness that thou art employed.
You could, for a need, study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and insert in ’t, could you not?
Where is gentle Rivers, Vaughan, Grey?
No, by mine honor, madam.
Oh, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
With cunning hast thou filched my daughter’s heart, Turned her obedience (which is due to me) To stubborn harshness.—And, my gracious duke, Be it so she will not here before your grace Consent to marry with Demetrius, I beg the ancient privilege of Athens.
A carrion death, within whose empty eye There is a written scroll.
What, you mean my face?
Thou art Dromio, thou art my man, thou art thyself.
Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.
She swoons to see them bleed.
Tennis balls, my liege.
A quarrel, ho, already?
You must play Pyramus.—And Flute, you Thisbe.
They will steal anything and call it purchase.
The play’s the thing Wherein I’ll catch the conscience of the king.
My naked weapon is out.
But if she cannot love you, sir?
God bless you, sir.
This fortification, gentlemen, shall we see ’t?
My hair doth stand an end to hear her curses.
Why, good sir?
Is he not a most profane and liberal counselor?
Rogue, thou hast lived too long.
No.
I am amazed and know not what to say.
Once more, Cesario, Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty.
Ay, and this.
Most mischievous foul sin in chiding sin, For thou thyself hast been a libertine, As sensual as the brutish sting itself, And all th' embossèd sores and headed evils That thou with license of free foot hast caught Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world.
But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale And feeds from home.
Why, or for what, the nobles were committed Is all unknown to me, my gracious lord.
The fiend gives the more friendly counsel.
Sir, I never loved you much, but I ha’ praised ye When you have well deserved ten times as much As I have said you did.
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres, Thy knotted and combinèd locks to part And each particular hair to stand on end, Like quills upon the fearful porpentine.
Think of me as you please.
That goldsmith there, were he not packed with her, Could witness it, for he was with me then, Who parted with me to go fetch a chain, Promising to bring it to the Porpentine, Where Balthasar and I did dine together.
If I did take the kingdom from your sons, To make amends I’ll give it to your daughter.
Come, boy.
I prithee, peace.
Anon we’ll drink a measure The table round.
Oh, strange!
Who governs here?
Conrade, I say!
No, and swears she never will.
Madam, in Rome.
If this be not that you look for, I have no more to say, But bid Bianca farewell forever and a day.
The Count’s gentleman, one Cesario.
Marry, God defend his grace should say us nay!
What?
If I speak like myself in this, let him be whipped that first finds it so.
If you do not, if I be left alone, Now, by mine honor—which is yet mine own— I’ll have that doctor for my bedfellow.
Your part in her you could not keep from death, But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
Why,       Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
Our instruments to melancholy bells, Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast.
How is ’t with you, my most fair Bianca?
No, my good lord.
Look where it comes again!
How goes the night, boy?
Indeed, he is so.
A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all!
I cannot bid you bid my daughter live— That were impossible—but, I pray you both, Possess the people in Messina here How innocent she died.
What ish my nation?
Our gracious brother, I will go with them.
I am sure no man hath any quarrel to me.
Yet you are withered.
Oh weary reckoning!
Save thee, friend, and thy music.
By computation and mine host’s report, I could not speak with Dromio since at first I sent him from the mart.
The folly of this island.
I speak not like a dotard nor a fool, As under privilege of age to brag What I have done being young, or what would do Were I not old.
Fall not a tear, I say.
They’ll tell the clock to any business that We say befits the hour.
The voice of Cassio.
Two or three groan.
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary horses, against the which he has impawned, as I take it, six French rapiers and poniards with their assigns—as girdle, hangers, and so.
E'en at hand, alighted by this.
You cram these words into mine ears against The stomach of my sense.
How chances it they travel?
I pray you leave me. 
Then know that from my soul I love thy daughter.
Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake?
Honest, my lord?
Let him alone awhile.
Are you content to stay?
But, sirrah, not for my sake, but your master’s, I advise You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies.
By foul play, as thou sayst, were we heaved thence, But blessedly holp hither.
Hence, prating peasant!
Receive it so.
Master young man, you, I pray you, which is the way to Master Jew’s?
Go show your slaves how choleric you are And make your bondmen tremble.
How will this fadge?
My lord, you once did love me.
I fear me you’ll be in till then.
Ay, when the special thing is well obtained, That is, her love, for that is all in all.
 if his position is furthered, his character will fulfill these predictions.
Why, for that too.
Marry, at the very next turning turn of no hand, but turn down indirectly to the Jew’s house.
And for my sister and her princely sons, Be satisfied, dear God, with our true blood, Which, as thou know’st, unjustly must be spilt.
An if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
If Hamlet give the first or second hit Or quit in answer of the third exchange, Let all the battlements their ordnance fire!
Romeo!
I wish you well, and so I take my leave.
I’ll make him find him.
What does the tyrant?
My lord, my lord— I will not hear you.
Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice.
Lechery!
Demand.
Dromio, nor thou?
Good fool, for my brother’s death.
Besides—I ha' not since put up my sword— Against the Capitol I met a lion, Who glared upon me and went surly by, Without annoying me.
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
What, ho, Brabantio!
And what should I do in Illyria?
Ay.
Well, I’ll break in.
Jove’s lightning, the precursors O' th' dreadful thunderclaps, more momentary And sight-outrunning were not.
Ay, sir, I have a pretty wit.
You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus.
Master, for my hand, Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
And, but for ceremony, such a wretch, Winding up days with toil and nights with sleep, Had the forehand and vantage of a king.
I’ll not be forsworn.
Why, lady!
I like not that.
Yes, just.
Dost thou hear, my honest friend?
The fire seven times tried this, Seven times tried that judgment is, That did never choose amiss.
Listen but speak not to ’t.
Content, in faith.
If thou ask me why, sufficeth my reasons are both good and weighty.
The music, ho!
Thou’dst shun a bear, But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea Thou’dst meet the bear i' th' mouth.
Proud,” and “I thank you,” and “I thank you not,” And yet “not proud”?
I will bandy with thee in faction.
Not i' th' stocks, fool.
Yea, wherefore should she not?
I pray you mar no more trees with writing love songs in their barks.
I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.
I have no power upon you.
The Moor already changes with my poison.
My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
You are, and do not know ’t.
Wherefore have these gifts a curtain before 'em?
Speak it again and, even with the word, This hand, which for thy love did kill thy love, Shall for thy love kill a far truer love.
What’s to be done?
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
Well moused, Lion!
Both?
Seek him, bid him come hither.
Within this roof The enemy of all your graces lives.
A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
For love I followed him.
Your shoes is not so good.
The court awards it, and the law doth give it.
Nay, an thou canst not smile as the wind sits, thou'lt catch cold shortly.
Good morrow, Brutus.
If I can fasten but one cup upon him, With that which he hath drunk tonight already, He’ll be as full of quarrel and offense As my young mistress' dog.
I grant you.
What says Lord Stanley?
Had I been any god of power, I would Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere It should the good ship so have swallowed and The fraughting souls within her.
Say to the king the knowledge of the broil As thou didst leave it.
By this scimitar That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince That won three fields of Sultan Solyman, I would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look, Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth, Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear, Yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey, To win the lady.
Come, bring me where they are.
I took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me.” That’s as much as to say, “Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks.” If I do not take pity of her, I am a villain.
Where art thou, keeper?
Is it answered?
Macbeth!— Had I three ears, I’d hear thee.
John Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Earl of Surrey, Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
The king is not to answer it.
More villain thou.—Well, push him out of doors And let my officers of such a nature Make an extent upon his house and lands.
Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius.
I have done no more to Caesar than you shall do to Brutus.
Return, good Catesby, to the gracious duke.
No?
Call Philostrate.
Eyes, do you see?
By this kind of chase I should hate him, for my father hated his father dearly.
Out o' th' moon, I do assure thee.
Into my grave.
O wicked Wall through whom I see no bliss!
He is much changed.
Those that do teach young babes Do it with gentle means and easy tasks.
Those that are married already, all but one, shall live.
My matter hath no voice, lady, but to your own most pregnant and vouchsafed ear.
O most dear mistress, The sun will set before I shall discharge What I must strive to do.
Or is he on his horse?
Will you two help to hasten them?
Out and alas, that was my lady’s voice.
Oh, by whom?
I have a venturous fairy that shall seek The squirrel’s hoard and fetch thee new nuts.
Go then, my mother; to thy daughter go.
There is no other way, Unless thou couldst put on some other shape And not be Richard, that hath done all this.
He hath the jewel of my life in hold, His youngest daughter, beautiful Bianca, And her withholds from me and other more, Suitors to her and rivals in my love, Supposing it a thing impossible, For those defects I have before rehearsed, That ever Katherina will be wooed.
Calls your Worship?
I pray you, master, tell me?
Is that true?
Gone?
Next, Cleopatra does confess thy greatness, Submits her to thy might, and of thee craves The circle of the Ptolemies for her heirs, Now hazarded to thy grace.
How dost thou, Charles?
Dear lady— Give me leave, beseech you.
Sing it tonight.
I would rather have one of your father’s getting.
Made I him king for this?
Woe to the land that’s governed by a child.
Very well,” “go to”!
Let me wipe it first.
Then half Signor Benedick’s tongue in Count John’s mouth, and half Count John’s melancholy in Signor Benedick’s face— With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money enough in his purse, such a man would win any woman in the world, if he could get her goodwill.
I will kiss your hand, and so I leave you.
I would not deny you, but, by this good day, I yield upon great persuasion, and partly to save your life, for I was told you were in a consumption.
A braggart, a rogue, a villain that fights by the book of arithmetic!
If I could pray to move, prayers would move me.
Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that Which might appall the devil.
I would not follow him then.
Stand not amazed.
I dare abide no longer.
If you shall send them word you will not come, Their minds may change.
We may as bootless spend our vain command Upon th' enragèd soldiers in their spoil As send precepts to the Leviathan To come ashore.
It is not so expressed, but what of that?
My boon I make it that you know me not Till time and I think meet.
Alas!
I’ll be before thee.
Calphurnia’s cheek is pale, and Cicero Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes As we have seen him in the Capitol Being crossed in conference by some senators.
What is the success?
Nothing, my lord, or if—I know not what.
Never, my lord.
The messenger Came on my guard, and at thy tent is now Unloading of his mules.
I thought thou hadst been resolute.
I serve as good a man as you.
Well, And well am like to do, for I perceive, Four feasts are toward.
Give me your blessing.
I will hence tonight.
Look behind you, my lord.
A fire, good Curtis.
Brother, I advise you to the best.
Away, away, be gone.
To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
 If anyone will pay this man’s bail, he will not be put to death.
Sir, I say to you it is thought you are false knaves.
List, list, O, list!
I shall serve you, sir, Truly, however else.
I see you all are bent To set against me for your merriment.
How fares my noble lord?
Yet, forgive me, God, That I do brag thus.
Here.
What do they in the north When they should serve their sovereign in the west?
And, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be, cast thy humble slough and appear fresh.
What?
Therefore bear up and board 'em.—Servant- monster, drink to me.
Ay, and a subtle, as he most learnedly delivered.
I have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes.
He did, from first to last.
If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt, you have hurt me.
Not to kill him, having a warrant, but to be damned for killing him, from the which no warrant can defend me.
I will go seek the king.
He’s almost slain, and Roderigo dead.
And twenty of these puny lies I’ll tell, That men shall swear I have discontinued school Above a twelvemonth.
So please your grace, the Prologue is addressed.
That now I will have—that’s the humor of it.
I do never use it.
Hark you, sir.
Leave me alone to woo him.
The trumpery in my house, go bring it hither For stale to catch these thieves.
All this my sister is, or else should be.
Heaven make thee free of it.
And to deal plainly I fear I am not in my perfect mind.
What’s this?
Why, what you will.
To wreak the love I bore my cousin Upon his body that slaughtered him!
Give mine the benefit of seigniory, And let my griefs frown on the upper hand.
So I do.
No.
This does make some obstruction in the blood, this cross-gartering, but what of that?
Why, God will send more, if the man will be thankful.
I will walk by.
Ay, you would beg, Were you in my distress.
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
Let it come down.
Most mighty sovereign, You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful.
Good morrow, Prince; good morrow, Claudio.
Do you amend it then.
Madam, good hope.
How is ’t with you?
Mark me.
With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my Rosalind.
Ready, my lord.
Oh, let us yet be merciful.
Yet his means are in supposition.
Lead me on.
If ’twere not she, I cannot tell who told me.
This murderous shaft that’s shot Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way Is to avoid the aim.
No.
You have killed a sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you.
I have too grieved a heart To take a tedious leave.
Invest me in my motley.
A friend.
Wake her not.
A king, a king!
Neglected, rather, And then when poisoned hours had bound me up From mine own knowledge.
Den it sall also content me.
They are his shards, and he 
Fortune and Antony part here.
Though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked parle, know now upon advice, it toucheth us both, that we may yet again have access to our fair mistress and be happy rivals in Bianca’s love, to labor and effect one thing specially.
My mind is changed.
Ay, Lepidus.
Twas no need, I trow, To bid me trudge.
Her name is Portia, nothing undervalued To Cato’s daughter, Brutus' Portia.
Now attest That those whom you called fathers did beget you.
Thou art The armorer of my heart.
Have done, have done.
Belike they had some notice of the people How I had moved them.
Say that thou overheardst us, And bid her steal into the pleachèd bower Where honeysuckles ripened by the sun Forbid the sun to enter, like favorites Made proud by princes, that advance their pride Against that power that bred it.
Where is my wife?
I have no great devotion to the deed And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons.
Good my lord, tell it.
Cheer your heart.
I to the world am like a drop of water That in the ocean seeks another drop, Who, falling there to find his fellow forth, Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself.
Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.
There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight.
If a man’s brains were in ’s heels, were ’t not in danger of kibes?
Sir, I cannot.
What, with Lysander?
No, rather I will go to Benedick And counsel him to fight against his passion; And truly I’ll devise some honest slanders To stain my cousin with.
I must, she’ll rail in the street else.
There will we dine.
I am pale, Charmian.
Look whe'e he has not turned his color and has tears in ’s eyes.—Prithee, no more.
Away!
They shout for joy.
You should then have accosted her, and with some excellent jests, fire-new from the mint, you should have banged the youth into dumbness. 
My lady has a white hand, and the Myrmidons are no bottle-ale houses.
Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
He will not know what all but he do know.
That they lack, for if their heads had any intellectual armor, they could never wear such heavy head-pieces.
Go and importune her.
Of the king’s ship, The mariners, say how thou hast disposed, And all the rest o' th' fleet.
If you prick us, do we not bleed?
Nay, send in time!
Our good old friend, Lay comforts to your bosom, and bestow Your needful counsel to our business, Which craves the instant use.
But till this afternoon his passion Ne'er brake into extremity of rage.
Sayest thou that house is dark?
What sense had I in her stol'n hours of lust?
I pray thee, good Mercutio, let’s retire.
Sister, it is not a little I have to say of what most nearly appertains to us both.
Hark, hark!
Do you doubt that?
You have no stomach, Signior.
Thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine Worth seizure, do we seize into our hands Till thou canst quit thee by thy brother’s mouth Of what we think against thee.
But if he be at hand I shall be satisfied.
Now do I see ’tis true.
Belike his wife, acquainted with his fits, On purpose shut the doors against his way.
If you are so fond over her iniquity, give her patent to offend, for if it touch not you it comes near nobody.
Then God be blessed, it is the blessèd sun.
Possess them not with fear.
Ah, he is young, and his minority Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester, A man that loves not me nor none of you.
If consequence do but approve my dream My boat sails freely, both with wind and stream.
My lord and master loves you.
The bridegroom he is come already.
I kiss his dirty shoe, and from heartstring I love the lovely bully.
Who saw Cesario, ho?
If we do meet again, we’ll smile indeed.
To have a foolish wife.
He hath known you but three days, and already you are no stranger.
A contract of true love to celebrate, And some donation freely to estate On the blessed lovers.
Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
The tyranny of the open night’s too rough For nature to endure.
Love wrought these miracles.
The wine she drinks is made of grapes.
So quick bright things come to confusion.
Let me play the lion too.
Fast bind, fast find.
Thanks, sir
Fie, sir, fie!
Is this the noble Moor whom our full senate Call all in all sufficient?
Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray?
Why, what i' devil’s name, tailor, call’st thou this?
It well appears.
But he comes armed in his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife.
Save you, worthy general!
Thy mother was a piece of virtue and She said thou wast my daughter.
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
Then, tell me, Who’s the next heir of Naples?
Alas now, pray you, Work not so hard.
My child is yet a stranger in the world.
Your lips will feel them the sooner.
I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so.
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
Are you so hasty now?
An inviting eye, and yet methinks right modest.
If he filled His vacancy with his voluptuousness, Full surfeits and the dryness of his bones Call on him for ’t.
Thou liest, abhorrèd tyrant.
My Lord of Cambridge, and my kind Lord of Masham, And you, my gentle knight, give me your thoughts.
The Lord protect him from that kingly title!
What, are you mad?
Where is my lord of Gloucester?
Your Highness bade me ask for it today.
O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven!
Be patient, for the prize I’ll bring thee to Shall hoodwink this mischance.
I pray thee, moralize them.
Enough to purchase what you have made known.
And I will sing it in the latter end of a play before the duke.
My words are dull.
Mistake no more.
Now art thou Romeo.
I think his soul is in hell, madonna.
Coldhearted toward me?
Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
What’s the matter with thee now?
Stay the friar too.
Madam, I am most apt to embrace your offer.
You have served me well, And kings have been your fellows.
Farewell, sweet masters both.
Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the matter.
And what have I to give you back whose worth May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
Shall we do that?
Master, is this Mistress Satan?
For better might we Have loved without this mean, if on both parts This be not cherished.
Think yourself a baby That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay, Which are not sterling.
Two of both kinds make up four.
So should the murdered look, and so should I, Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty.
At five o'clock I shall receive the money for the same.
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate with my face?
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
O, reason not the need!
Nay, if you strive— But half an hour!
At your request!
As sure, my liege, as I do see your Grace.
There’s but one down.
Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms.
And those that leave their valiant bones in France, Dying like men though buried in your dunghills, They shall be famed; for there the sun shall greet them And draw their honors reeking up to heaven, Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime,
Cesario is your servant’s name, fair princess.
 if you have something, you have it.
Away!
Oh, couldst thou speak, That I might hear thee call great Caesar ass Unpolicied!
The sun was not so true unto the day As he to me.
Well, sir, I thank you.
O gentle lady, 'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak
They stumble that run fast.
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly.
I do not well understand that.
And when I do, I swear It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate, Rather than Paris.
The tender prince Would fain have come with me to meet your Grace, But by his mother was perforce withheld.
And whatsoever else shall hap tonight, Give it an understanding, but no tongue.
But forbear, I say.
Welcome, wanderer.
I’ll strike and cry, “Take all.”                                                           Well said.
For us, you know Whose he is we are, and that is Caesar’s.
What, with worms and flies?
There’s beggary in the love that can be reckoned.
But of that tomorrow, When therewithal we shall have cause of state Craving us jointly.
None at all.
I have led you oft; carry me now, good friends, And have my thanks for all.
I will hear Cassius and compare their reasons When severally we hear them renderèd.
His glory not extenuated wherein he was worthy, nor his offenses enforced for which he suffered death.
Now spurs the lated traveler apace To gain the timely inn, and near approaches The subject of our watch.
But why, why, why?
What, up and down, carved like an apple tart?
I tell thee, Litio, this is wonderful!
We charge you, in the Prince’s name, stand!
That’s twice.
And we’ll consign thereto.—Will you, fair sister, Go with the princes or stay here with us?
You’re much deceived.
What eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.” There’s a double meaning in that.
Mark him.
How may we try it further?
Therefore this letter, being so excellently ignorant, will breed no terror in the youth.
I know not what ’twas but distraction.
I shall remember.
I wonder of their being here together.
Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of, and would you yet I were merrier?
I’ll make the motion.
Is the storm overblown?
Now I must To the young man send humble treaties, dodge And palter in the shifts of lowness, who With half the bulk o’ th’ world played as I pleased, Making and marring fortunes.
Chastisement!
Tis pitiful, but yet Iago knows That she with Cassio hath the act of shame A thousand times committed.
I am the man.
You are early stirring.
Oh, wonderful!
Mutton?
Such and so finely bolted didst thou seem.
My husband?
How oddly he is suited!
But that I am forbid To tell the secrets of my prison house, I could a tale unfold whose lightest word Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Richard of York, how fares our loving brother?
Nay, then, good night our part.
What’s the matter?
I pray you, sir, my ring or else the chain.
Believe me, I had rather have lost my purse Full of crusadoes.
Nothing but “low” and “little”!— Why will you suffer her to flout me thus?
A good man’s fortune may grow out at heels.
Come, thou tortoise!
What news from Genoa?
Had he a hand to write this, a heart and brain to breed it in?
Are you of good or evil?
Wast thou not charged at peril— Wherefore to Dover?—Let him first answer that.
He hath confessed.
I know her by her gait.
Even so great men great losses should endure.
He sees thee not.
Very easily possible.
My soul shall thine keep company to heaven.
Say that you love me not, but say not so In bitterness.
Would he not be a comfort to our travel?
It is, my lord.
Come hither, mistress.
Ninus' tomb,” man.
With what I get, I mean, and so do they.
Well met, well met, Master Antipholus.
There is something else.
Have patience, I beseech.
If he awake, From toe to crown he’ll fill our skins with pinches, Make us strange stuff.
But how, my lord, shall we resist it now?
By running fast.
Nay, come, again.
We have been up and down to seek him.
Save you, friend Cassio!
I think not so, my lord.
Still did I tell him it was vile and bad.
So you shall.
That’s two of his weapons.
At first And last, the hearty welcome.
At your kind’st leisure.
I can see a church by daylight.
Nay, an there were two such, we should have none shortly, for one would kill the other.
I scorn you not.
He is drowned Whom thus we stray to find, and the sea mocks Our frustrate search on land.
There are no tricks in plain and simple faith.
Sunday comes apace.
Am not I your Rosalind? 
That ever I should live to see thee dead.
O Lord, Lord, it is a hard matter for friends to meet, but mountains may be removed with earthquakes and so encounter.
And I know not what’s spent in the search.
You are well fleshed.
Find them out whose names are written here?
He married but his occasion here.
You say he dined at home; the goldsmith here Denies that saying.
But, come what may, I do adore thee so That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.
Stand from the hearse.
Your royal preparation Makes us hear something.
I would the lightning had Burnt up those logs that you are enjoined to pile!
That now Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition.
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb, And the place death, considering who thou art, If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
What is it thou didst say?
I had most need of blessing, and “Amen” Stuck in my throat.
This is the penthouse under which Lorenzo Desired us to make stand.
Pah!
Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead.
They have made him drink alms-drink.
What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love?
Thy husband knew it all.
Who knocks so hard?
What’s the matter?
Ho, let the door be locked.
Run to the Capulets.
If your master Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him, That majesty, to keep decorum, must No less beg than a kingdom.
I will see them.
The concernancy, sir?
Ay, and Wall too.
Is this the Prince?
Pish!
And thought they Margaret was Hero?
But say, sir, is it dinnertime?
But this is trifling, And all the more it seeks to hide itself The bigger bulk it shows.
As I learned, The night before there was no purpose in them Of this remove.
Masters, never speak, we charge you, let us obey you go with us.
To bed, to bed.
Captain Macmorris, I beseech you now, will you voutsafe me, look you, a few disputations with you as partly touching or concerning the disciplines of the war, the Roman wars?
From Athens is her house remote seven leagues, And she respects me as her only son.
None, my lord.
Let me yet know of you whither you are bound.
Now a little fire in a wild field were like an old lecher’s heart—a small spark, all the rest on ’s body cold.
What shall you ask of me that I’ll deny, That honor, saved, may upon asking give?
His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valor, for the goose carries not the fox.
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks.
By Jupiter, This shall not be revoked.
No.
With this strange virtue, He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy, And sundry blessings hang about his throne, That speak him full of grace.
Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffered love.
Give me now leave to leave thee.
All things shall be well.
Ere it be demanded, As like enough it will, I would have it copied.
He was not three leagues off when I left him.
You’ve strange serpents there?
Be your tears wet?
Let’s see.
Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction, That long have frowned upon their enmity.
You are full of pretty answers.
O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!
Or shall I think in silver she’s immured, Being ten times undervalued to tried gold?
Oh, be sick, great greatness, And bid thy ceremony give thee cure!
You’ll let us in, I hope?
Or have we eaten on the insane root That takes the reason prisoner?
Off with that bauble, throw it underfoot.
This heavy-headed revel east and west Makes us traduced and taxed of other nations.
Stayed it long?
Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go?
When it is lighted, come and call me here.
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i' th' earth?
Would not they speak?
A great suspicion.
It is a massy wheel Fixed on the summit of the highest mount, To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things Are mortised and adjoined, which, when it falls, Each small annexment, petty consequence, Attends the boisterous ruin.
Oh, what learning is!
When saw you my father last?
The sun!
Thou worms' meat in respect of a good piece of flesh, indeed.
Say that she rail; why then I’ll tell her plain She sings as sweetly as a nightingale.
No, make it two more.
If I can recover him and keep him tame, I will not take too much for him.
Why, then, I care not for thee.
Why doth the Jew pause?
This, by his voice, should be a Montague.—   What, dares the slave Come hither, covered with an antic face, To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
Is this a dagger which I see before me, The handle toward my hand?
For my part, I have walked about the streets, Submitting me unto the perilous night, And, thus unbracèd, Casca, as you see, Have bared my bosom to the thunder-stone.
Do so.
My door is lock’d.
Your daughter spent in Genoa, as I heard, in one night fourscore ducats.
Brother, my lord the duke, Stand to and do as we.
Then to the wood will he tomorrow night Pursue her.
Let me ask you one word in private.
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love, And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next— But, soft!
If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your servant.
Come on, i' God’s name, once more toward our father’s.
He is arrived.
With all my heart.
Ay, but he will not now be pacified.
The power of Caesar, and His power unto Octavia.
Revenge.
It is the most impenetrable cur That ever kept with men.
True,” said she, “a fine little one.” “No,” said I, “a great wit.” “Right,” says she, “a great gross one.” “Nay,” said I, “a good wit.” “Just,” said she, “it hurts nobody.” “Nay,” said I, “the gentleman is wise.” “Certain,” said she, “a wise gentleman.” “Nay,” said I, “he hath the tongues.” “That I believe,” said she, “for he swore a thing to me on Monday night, which he forswore on Tuesday morning; there’s a double tongue, there’s two tongues.” Thus did she an hour together transshape thy particular virtues.
Tis true.
Poor prattler, how thou talk’st!
Go in, Nerissa.
My lord of Burgundy.
Jove and my stars be praised!
Though it appear a little out of fashion, There is much care and valor in this Welshman.
That’s good.
I am thy father’s spirit, Doomed for a certain term to walk the night And for the day confined to fast in fires, Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature Are burnt and purged away.
What trumpet’s that?
God save the foundation!
Ay, that he was.
But, sith I am entered in this cause so far, Pricked to ’t by foolish honesty and love, I will go on.
What sum owes he the Jew?
And how long is that, think you?
This case of that huge spirit now is cold.
Ay, he.
You are unkind, Demetrius.
Pray, what do you think is his name?
Casca, by your voice.
I was the man i' the moon when time was.
But are not some whole that we must make sick?
But now, my lord.
Four legs and two voices—a most delicate monster.
You appeared to me but as a common man.
I thank you, sir.
Remember me.
For aught that I could ever read, Could ever hear by tale or history, The course of true love never did run smooth.
No messenger but thine, and all alone Tonight we’ll wander through the streets and note The qualities of people.
To anger him, we’ll have the bear again, and we will fool him black and blue.
Od’s lifelings, here he is!—You broke my head for nothing, and that that I did, I was set on to do ’t by Sir Toby.
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
Happily met, my lady and my wife.
I’ll carry it to the pile.
Half afeard to come.
A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
The chain!
My lord, we will not.
I never saw a better-fashioned gown, More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable.
What news, what news in this our tott'ring state?
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
Such as she says my lord did say I was.
O, tell me, Friar, tell me, In what vile part of this anatomy Doth my name lodge?
I am glad on ’t.
Followed the old man forth.
Ay, do.
Nothing extenuate, Nor set down aught in malice.
His taints and honors Waged equal with him.
Bid them come near.
What devil art thou that dost torment me thus?
Why should that name be sounded more than yours?
I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed monster.
Oh, beware, my lord, of jealousy!
For in all the play There is not one word apt, one player fitted.
Stands he or sits he?
Noblest of men, woo’t die?
I will stop your mouth.
You envy my advancement, and my friends'.
 tell the Constable we’re only workaday soldiers.
No, my fair cousin.
But I have, sir, a son by order of law, some year older than this, who yet is no dearer in my account.
Rest you happy!
Pray you, if it be, give it me, for I am slow of study.
How, how, how, how?
Sir, pardon me in what I have to say.
I prithee, good Grumio, tell me, how goes the world?
Madam?
I will do any thing, Nerissa, ere I’ll be married to a sponge.
Indeed, I am no mourner for that news, Because they have been still my adversaries.
That I might sleep out this great gap of time My Antony is away.
Black night o'ershade thy day, and death thy life.
And that which spites me more than all these wants, He does it under name of perfect love, As who should say, if I should sleep or eat, 'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon, For he was great of heart.
The third part, then, is drunk.
I have marked A thousand blushing apparitions To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames In angel whiteness beat away those blushes, And in her eye there hath appeared a fire To burn the errors that these princes hold Against her maiden truth.
The day, my friends, and all things stay for me.
O, let us have him, for his silver hairs Will purchase us a good opinion And buy men’s voices to commend our deeds.
Ingrateful fox, ’tis he.
Then shall we be news-crammed.
What sayst thou?
Bid her have good heart.
What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and hose and leaves off his wit!
Thy woes will make them sharp and pierce like mine.
Yare, lower, lower!
Fare thee well.
Ay, ay.
Let him approach.
Now, if these men have defeated the law and outrun native punishment, though they can outstrip men, they have no wings to fly from God.
Oh, dispatch me!
Were I my father, coz, would I do this?
Dost fall?
He will do all in all as Hastings doth.
O mischief strangely thwarting!
You shall have the mustard Or else you get no beef of Grumio.
Go.
I’ll give you a verse to this note that I made yesterday in despite of my invention. 
We are haunted.
My lord, Mark Antony, Hearing that you prepared for war, acquainted My grievèd ear withal, whereon I begged His pardon for return.
With all my heart.
The servants of the Duke and my lieutenant?
Is there not charms By which the property of youth and maidhood May be abused?
Could my good brother suffer you to do it— A man, a prince by him so benefited?
These are unsightly tricks.
You heard her say herself it was not I.
Farewell.
Worthy gentleman!
Come, hang them on this line.
Nothing that I respect, my gracious lord.
Answer my life my judgment, Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least, Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound Reverbs no hollowness.
Then say they were not slain.
Gloucester’s eyes?
Ah, that good Kent— He said it would be thus, poor banished man.
Tyrrel, I mean those bastards in the Tower.
This is the fruits of rashness.
I must needs report the truth.
Would they were basilisks to strike thee dead.
I am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs.
He will, an if he live to be a man.
Will you tell me that?
O, let it not be so.
The Lord in heaven bless thee, noble Harry!
Have you a soul or sense?
It shall be said his judgment ruled our hands.
Now.
Very like a whale.
Where is he now?
If there were no more women but Fulvia, then had you indeed a cut, and the case to be lamented.
Because, look you, you do not love it, nor your affections and your appetites and your digestions does not agree with it, I would desire you to eat it. 
What is she?
And now I do bethink me, it was she First told me thou wast mad, then camest in smiling, And in such forms which here were presupposed Upon thee in the letter.
Hast thou forgot thyself?
Did he confess it?
Look, they weep, And I, an ass, am onion-eyed.
Well may you prosper.
Stand, an you be a man.
Why no, no more than reason.
This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.
Sir, amen.
Look what I speak, or do, or think to do, You are still crossing it.
I say, remember.
Captain Jamy is a marvelous falorous gentleman, that is certain, and of great expedition and knowledge in th' aunchient wars, upon my particular knowledge of his directions.
Go back again and be new beaten home?
Why “with some little train,” my Lord of Buckingham?
You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
Fortune is merry, And in this mood will give us anything.
Come, night.
If I dream not, thou art Emilia.
What, go you toward the Tower?
When, without stratagem, But in plain shock and even play of battle, Was ever known so great and little loss On one part and on th' other?
Tongue nor heart cannot conceive nor name thee!
In Syracusa was I born, and wed Unto a woman happy but for me, And by me, had not our hap been bad.
Not all the dukes of waterish Burgundy Can buy this unprized precious maid of me.— Bid them farewell, Cordelia, though unkind.
He knows not the stop.
Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves?
God-a-mercy, Grumio!
Ay, be so, good Touchstone.
His daughter and I will be king and queen—save our graces!—and Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys.—Dost thou like the plot, Trinculo?
Tom’s a- cold.
O, preposterous And frantic outrage, end thy damnèd spleen, Or let me die, to look on death no more.
No better.
Let me see 'em.
Let the old ruffian know I have many other ways to die, meantime Laugh at his challenge.
Yes, marry, sir.
Thus we may see,” quoth he, “how the world wags.
There is an old poor man Who after me hath many a weary step Limped in pure love.
I have not dined today.
Let that suffice you.
There’s five to one.
And yet I wish but for the thing I have.
Who comes here?
By Jove that thunders!
You take pleasure then in the message?
When Roscius was an actor in Rome—  The actors are come hither, my lord.
 first his daughter, then everything else, as you strictly proposed.
Friend Launcelot, what’s the news?
I like you lads.
That which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose.
No, Messala.
Be fickle, fortune, For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long, But send him back.  
I’ll mend it and then play— Where’s the Queen?
I care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.
Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house, I will discharge my bond and thank you too.
The words expressly are “a pound of flesh.” Take then thy bond, take thou thy pound of flesh, But in the cutting it if thou dost shed One drop of Christian blood, thy lands and goods Are by the laws of Venice confiscate Unto the state of Venice.
But either it was different in blood—
Art thou wise?
Fool, fool, fool, I say!
Then shall the sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar, and, as I said before, that which is the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author of their variance.
Will it not be?
So all.
I found it in my chamber, And he himself confessed but even now That there he dropped it for a special purpose Which wrought to his desire.
Besides, I have some business in the town.
And so have I addressed me.
Bind fast his corky arms.
Sole monarch of the universal earth, Oh, what a beast was I to chide at him!
Such have but a shadow’s bliss.
We are two lions littered in one day, And I the elder and more terrible.
Go to, charm your tongue.
So will you say when you have seen the sequel.
I have limed her, but it is Jove’s doing, and Jove make me thankful!
 find out what I’ve done to offend this knight.
Remember First to possess his books, for without them He’s but a sot, as I am, nor hath not One spirit to command.
And were the king on ’t, what would I do?
What, i' th' storm, i' th' night?
Didst hear her speak?
Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity In least speak most, to my capacity.
Why, you were with him, were you not?
 You, Romeo, have not been to bed tonight.
Did you ne'er hear say, “Two may keep counsel, putting one away”?
O, that once more you knew but what you are!
Will you pluck your sword out of his pilcher by the ears?
Messala, I have here receivèd letters That young Octavius and Mark Antony Come down upon us with a mighty power, Bending their expedition toward Philippi.
His son was but a ward two years ago.
Therefore speak.
All of us have cause To wail the dimming of our shining star, But none can help our harms by wailing them.— Madam, my mother, I do cry you mercy; I did not see your Grace.
I tell you, ’twill sound harshly in her ears.
Call you?
For I will make him tell the tale anew Where, how, how oft, how long ago, and when He hath, and is again to cope your wife.
Where is your sister, and Hortensio’s wife?
Why, what’s a moveable?
Ay, my lord.
I am sorry for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
Yet, in reason, no man should possess him with any appearance of fear, lest he, by showing it, should dishearten his army. 
I swear ’tis better to be much abused Than but to know ’t a little.
Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast.
Here lies the county slain, And Juliet bleeding, warm and newly dead, Who here hath lain these two days buried.— Go, tell the Prince.
Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia, The gods themselves throw incense.
Prithee, peace.
Double, double toil and trouble, Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
In all these circumstances I’ll instruct you.
Let him let the matter slip, and I’ll give him my horse, gray Capilet.
Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness, And fear’st to die?
I am bound to the Count Orsino’s court.
Flat burglary as ever was committed.
A madness most discreet, A choking gall, and a preserving sweet.
How now?
I think there’s never a man in Christendom Can lesser hide his love or hate than he, For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
If I can cross him any way, I bless myself every way.
Here’s the smell of the blood still.
Say not so.
Go fetch fire.
I do beseech you That are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly And hinder them from what this ecstasy May now provoke them to.
Mistress and master, you have oft inquired After the shepherd that complained of love, Who you saw sitting by me on the turf, Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess That was his mistress.
Tis yours, and we, Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest, shall Hang in what place you please.
Wife, children, servants, all that could be found.
He is hid at Lawrence' cell.
There will we rehearse, for if we meet in the city we shall be dogged with company, and our devices known.
Swell, bosom, with thy fraught, For ’tis of aspics' tongues!
Tis true indeed, so your daughter says.
Fie on her!
He replied, “Thou unpossessing bastard!
I would do much T' atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio.
O woeful time.
Go after.
Have you delivered to her our decree?
Royal Lear, Whom I have ever honored as my king, Loved as my father, as my master followed, As my great patron thought on in my prayers— The bow is bent and drawn.
What’s this?
Within my tent his bones tonight shall lie Most like a soldier, ordered honorably.
Even he, madam.
Is that the chain you promised me today?
No occupation.
Since his majesty went into the field, I have seen her rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon ’t, read it, afterwards seal it, and again return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep.
Then tell me If this might be a brother.
But what of that?
Helena, adieu.
The messengers of Venice stays the meat.
O calm dishonourable, vile submission!
Contending with the fretful elements.
But soft, but soft a while.
If I lose a scruple of this sport, let me be boiled to death with melancholy.
Why, this would make a man a man of salt, To use his eyes for garden water-pots, Ay, and laying autumn’s dust.
Pray you do not, sir.
The constable of France.
She replied It should be better he became her guest, Which she entreated.
Menas, I’ll not on shore.
He did ask favor.
Tis false.
My lord of Gloucester hath conveyed him hence.
I thought that all things had been savage here, And therefore put I on the countenance Of stern commandment.
How green!
Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
Give to a gracious message An host of tongues, but let ill tidings tell Themselves when they be felt.
Do not then walk too open.
Pardon, master.
No more of drowning, do you hear?
Haste thee for thy life.
He fears, my lord, you mean no good to him.
Upon that I kiss your hand, and I call you my queen.
I’ll know thy thoughts.
If you saw yourself with your eyes or knew yourself with your judgment, the fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equal enterprise.
And what’s he then that says I play the villain?
I’ll follow it.
A damnèd death!
That will I make before I let thee go.
Come, let’s away to prison.
We’ll burn the house of Brutus.
Belike ’tis but a rumor.
I long to hear him call the drunkard “husband,” And how my men will stay themselves from laughter When they do homage to this simple peasant.
How malicious is my fortune, that I must repent to be just!
That shall be by and by.
The wager?
Let me report to him Your sweet dependency, and you shall find A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness Where he for grace is kneeled to.
Let me be ta'en.
Who’s there?
God and the rope-maker bear me witness That I was sent for nothing but a rope.
No.
Romeo’s a dishclout to him.
And what art thou that dar’st Appear thus to us?
Sir, Octavius is already come to Rome.
Most true.
I never sued to friend, nor enemy; My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word.
Still in this fashion, color, ornament, For him I imitate.
What, dost thou make us minstrels?
Remember it, my lord?
You’re welcome hither.
Ay, my good lord.
Let him cry, “Praise and glory on his head!” For forth he goes and visits all his host, Bids them good morrow with a modest smile, And calls them brothers, friends, and countrymen.
Know’st thou the way to Dover?
Upon her landing, Antony sent to her, Invited her to supper.
Nay, but say true, does it work upon him?
Oh, behold How pomp is followed!
But ’tis all one; ’tis alike as my fingers is to my fingers, and there is salmons in both.
Then, masters, look to see a troublous world.
You are their heir, you sit upon their throne, The blood and courage that renownèd them Runs in your veins; and my thrice-puissant liege Is in the very May-morn of his youth, Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.
Bianca’s love Made me exchange my state with Tranio, While he did bear my countenance in the town, And happily I have arrivèd at the last Unto the wishèd haven of my bliss.
See this dispatched with all the haste thou canst
It looks a little paler.
Antonio is a good man.
Good my friends, consider You are my guests.
Crack thy frail case!—Apace, Eros, apace.
I am not of your element.
I pity you.
Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow For tender princes, use my babies well.
Humbly, sir, I thank you.
What I am and what I would are as secret as maidenhead.
Come now, keep thine oath.
But being widow, and my Gloucester with her, May all the building in my fancy pluck Upon my hateful life.
O, know, my name is lost.
Fare you well.
Shall I say to you, “Let them be free!
In my school days, when I had lost one shaft, I shot his fellow of the selfsame flight The selfsame way with more advisèd watch To find the other forth—and by adventuring both, I oft found both.
Turn, hellhound, turn!
Widow Dido” said you?
Why then, your ambition makes it one.
For I am sure mine nails Are stronger than mine eyes.
Win me and wear me!
And when I rear my hand, do you the like, To fall it on Gonzalo.
Go thither, and with unattainted eye Compare her face with some that I shall show, And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
Thus high, by thy advice And thy assistance is King Richard seated.
Now in faith, Gratiano, You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief.
What, will my daughter prove a good musician?
Hark!
O, you are novices!
Proof enough to misuse the Prince, to vex Claudio, to undo Hero, and kill Leonato.
I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as they list.
But as yet, I swear, I cannot truly say how I came here.
I shall obey, my lord.
Rather on Nilus’ mud Lay me stark naked and let the waterflies Blow me into abhorring.
Here come the officers.
 a whole university full of wisecrackers couldn’t change my mood today.
You may do your will, But he’s a tried and valiant soldier.
And I know, my lord, If law, authority, and power deny not, It will go hard with poor Antonio.
I would they’d fight i’ th’ fire or i’ th’ air, We’d fight there too.
Some must go off.
The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could carry cannon by our sides.
Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother.
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder And that craves wary walking.
Beat them down!
If it please you.
So, adieu.
Have not you love enough to bear with me, When that rash humor which my mother gave me Makes me forgetful?
Doing is activity, and he will still be doing.
Is it concluded that he shall be Protector?
What, are the brothers parted?
I am gone, though I am here.
Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?
Their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage.
To flatter Caesar, would you mingle eyes With one that ties his points?
And here much Orlando.
Believe not so.
Oh, quick, or I am gone.
Soft and fair, Friar.—Which is Beatrice?
Look you, sir, such a one I was this present.
My lord, I’ll tell you that self bill is urged Which in th' eleventh year of the last king’s reign Was like, and had indeed against us passed But that the scambling and unquiet time Did push it out of farther question.
Yet thou didst kill my children.
 that’s the way they sell bulls.
There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
An honest tale speeds best being plainly told.
Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me.
Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman, for I cannot see how sleeping should offend.
I drunk!
Ay, mistress, and Petruchio is the master, That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue.
When in that moment so it came to pass, Titania waked and straightway loved an ass.
Come, sir, I am for you.
No, my good lord.
 it has its own rhythm and timing.
Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.” Must give—for what?
Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest Whilst you abide here.
Soft, Caesar.
He may recover yet. 
Tell her I am arrested in the street, And that shall bail me.
Dead.
How came her eyes so bright?
Therefore thou must be hanged at the state’s charge.
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
Their lips were four red roses on a stalk, And in their summer beauty kissed each other.
Why, this that I speak of.
By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast.
What soldiers, whey-face?
Ask for me tomorrow, and you shall find me a grave man.
When I like your favor, for God defend the lute should be like the case!
Give me your hand.
There is no love in you.
I will challenge him.
The cockerel.
If he do fear God, he must necessarily keep peace.
His name!
God be with you all.
What’s here?
You speak too bitterly.
Swear not by time to come, for that thou hast Misused ere used, by times ill-used o'erpast.
What soldiers, patch?
Oh, I could play the woman with mine eyes And braggart with my tongue!
Forever and forever farewell, Cassius.
Ere he take ship for France, and in Southampton.
To what end did I bid thee hie thee home?
If it be that— If it be that, or any that was hers, It speaks against her with the other proofs.
I’ll wear none but this.
I wish your Worship well.
Lay her i' th' earth, And from her fair and unpolluted flesh May violets spring!
Upon the king!
In your own kingdom, sir.
Mistress,  Wilt thou still talk?
How did you find the quarrel on the seventh cause?
It must be thought on.
You rub the sore When you should bring the plaster.
You are a fishmonger.
Mine speak of seventy senators that died By their proscriptions, Cicero being one.
What, have you forgot me?
This was but as a fly by an eagle.
Young Edward lives; think now what I would speak.
Run to your houses, fall upon your knees, Pray to the gods to intermit the plague That needs must light on this ingratitude.
Ask her forgiveness?
But though they jump not on a just account— As in these cases, where the aim reports 'Tis oft with difference—yet do they all confirm A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus.
I never hurt you.
What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?
Thou hast, Ventidius, that Without the which a soldier and his sword Grants scarce distinction.
Thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will allow of thy wits, and fear to kill a woodcock lest thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam.
What, my old worshipful old master?
Your daughter here the princes left for dead.
O wonderful son that can so ’stonish a mother!
Welcome, my friends all.
An oath, an oath, I have an oath in heaven.
Wherefore?
But what’s your will?
That will I.
I grant indeed it hath not appeared, and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment.
Twas you we laughed at.
Ay, and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing.
Bless us!
They are free men, but I am banishèd.
She’s framed as fruitful As the free elements.
Yon light is not daylight, I know it, I.
Sit.
How fondly dost thou reason!
But, by 'r Lady, he must build churches then, or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is “For, oh, for, oh, the hobby-horse is forgot.”      What means this, my lord?
Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most anything Alexas, almost most absolute Alexas, where’s the soothsayer that you praised so to th’ Queen?
Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman?
How now?
That’s not so.
Against my soul’s pure truth why labour you To make it wander in an unknown field?
Tomorrow, Before the sun shall see ’s, we’ll spill the blood That has today escaped.
As I remember, this should be the house.
With all my heart.
What, mistress!
No more.
He is at hand, and Pindarus is come To do you salutation from his master.
I frown upon him, yet he loves me still.
Not I.
Farewell, dear mother.
It is, and wants but nomination.
Hoyday, a riddle!
I’ll have some proof.
I have done no harm.
Why, who would not make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch?
Mistake me not.
I’ll not budge an inch, boy.
A turn or two I’ll walk To still my beating mind.
Did he ask for me?
Let us go in, And charge us there upon interr'gatories, And we will answer all things faithfully.
As ever you come of women, come in quickly to Sir John.
How should that be?
As freely, son, as God did give her me.
I should be angry with you if the time were convenient.
Use them after your own honor and dignity.
Comes Caesar to the Capitol tomorrow?
Stay, stand apart.
To Adriana.
It shall do well.
She ate no meat today, nor none shall eat.
I will lay trust upon thee, and thou shalt find a dearer father in my love. 
But, look you, Cassius, The angry spot doth glow on Caesar’s brow, And all the rest look like a chidden train.
Like a drowned man, a fool and a madman.
Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword.
The king my father?!
Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen through the lion’s neck.
And speak parrot?
What, not one hit?
I hear some noise within.
Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all miscarried.
Then he offered it to him again, then he put it by again—but, to my thinking, he was very loath to lay his fingers off it.
Come away, away.
Oh, lay me by my mistress' side.
I think it is.
I know he loves me well.
Indeed?
If it prove lawful prize, he’s made for ever.
He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
Hence, get thee gone, and follow me no more.
Good morrow, cousin.
Madam.
I therefore vouch again That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood Or with some dram, conjured to this effect, He wrought upon her.
The heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase, Even as our days do grow.
Could not this make thee know The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so?
Speak not so grossly.—You are all amazed.
Oh, withered is the garland of the war.
Is there none here to give the woman?
Well, my good fellows, wait on me tonight.
Must there no more be done?
Oh, me, lieutenant!
And so farewell, Signior Lucentio.
Being done unknown, I should have found it afterwards well done, But must condemn it now.
By Cheshu, I think he will plow up all if there is not better directions.
Hazard for lead?
Master, if you do, expect spoon meat; or bespeak a long spoon.
 the feet can bear Sure, but these feet were 
We will greet the time.
If he cannot, let the botcher mend him.
What would you with me, honest neighbor?
Be factious for redress of all these griefs, And I will set this foot of mine as far As who goes farthest.
Why, how now?
I’ll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit he other day.
What wouldst thou now?
Not that Adam that kept the Paradise, but that Adam that keeps the prison; he that goes in the calf’s skin that was killed for the Prodigal; he that came behind you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you forsake your liberty.
Be not offended.
Have we devils here?
March on, march on, since we are up in arms, If not to fight with foreign enemies, Yet to beat down these rebels here at home.
Thy substance, valued at the highest rate, Cannot amount unto a hundred marks; Therefore by law thou art condemned to die.
They murder Caesar!”—Who’s within?
So, thanks to all at once and to each one, Whom we invite to see us crowned at Scone.
Or do you play the flouting jack, to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter?
Speak.
And how cam’st thou hither?
I will tell you why.
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge, And drive his purpose on to these delights.
Discern’st thou aught in that?
I beseech you, what manner of man is he?
This my mean task Would be as heavy to me as odious, but The mistress which I serve quickens what’s dead And makes my labors pleasures.
See, your wife’s with him.
When went there by an age, since the great flood, But it was famed with more than with one man?
I am sorry for thee, friend.
But I feel not This deity in my bosom.
Tis bitter cold, And I am sick at heart.
Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, Nurse.
That song tonight Will not go from my mind.
Marry, sir, be better employed, and be naught awhile.
I’ll go arm myself.
Why, but there’s many a man hath more hair than wit.
And be a happy mother by the deed.
Stay till I have read the letter.
I had a wound here that was like a “T,” But now ’tis made an “H.”                                                        They do retire.
Why, fare thee well.
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
Fellow, wilt thou bestow thy time with me?
I will then give it you soundly.
Are you now going to dispatch this thing?
Cleopatra, catching but the least noise of this, dies instantly.
How canst thou woo her?
No, Lepidus, let him speak.
Romeo, Romeo, Romeo!
No, I will not.
Thou’dst thank me but a little for my counsel; And yet I’ll promise thee she shall be rich, And very rich.
Within this hour I was his bondman sir, But he, I thank him, gnawed in two my cords.
By heaven, I’ll have ’t.
So is my horse, Octavius, and for that I do appoint him store of provender.
Even for that our love of old, I prithee, Hold thou my sword hilts, whilst I run on it.
This man hath had good counsel—a hundred knights!
I’ll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners and suppers and sleeping hours excepted.
 our army will stay with us on the hills by the city.
If thou art she, tell me where is that son That floated with thee on the fatal raft?
Who meets us here?
Let us go.
Are you ready, sir?
I have already.
Where had he wine?
Oh, thereby hangs a tail.
What is ’t thou say’st?
Tis the time’s plague when madmen lead the blind.
Where may we set our horses?
Take thou the bill, give me thy mete- yard, and spare not me.
Come, come, do you think I do not know you by your excellent wit?
For God’s sake, send some other messenger.
I am dying, Egypt, dying.
I am changed.
Hound or spaniel, brach or him,  Bobtail tyke or trundle-tail—  Tom will make them weep and wail.
Am I not wise?
Or else it stood upon the choice of friends— O hell, to choose love by another’s eyes!
O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
Amen, say we.
To go out of my dialect, which you discommend so much.
Which in his dearest need will fly from him.
When Prospero is destroyed.
A laughter.
It was wont to hold me but while one tells twenty.
Fare thee well.
Adieu.
What dost thou say?
Never was seen so black a day as this.
At Sardis once, And this last night here in Philippi fields.
Know you any, count?
I marvel Cambio comes not all this while.
He seeks my life.
Is he not light of brain?
No, none that thou hast wit enough to make.
Tis hard; almost impossible.
Why, what should you fear?
But it sufficeth that the day will end, And then the end is known.—Come, ho!
Tis not a time for private stomaching.
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
She robs thee of thy name, And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous When she is gone.
And in the morning early will we both Fly toward Belmont.
I have heard Your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify His rigorous course.
She’s not fourteen.
If I say sooth, I must report they were As cannons overcharged with double cracks, So they doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe.
O come, Ventidius.
Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter.
These foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit.
And maidens call it “love-in-idleness.” Fetch me that flower.
Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common players (as it is most like if their means are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession?
There were none fine but Adam, Rafe, and Gregory.
Let us bear him  To th’ court of guard.
Here in these confines slyly have I lurked To watch the waning of mine enemies.
I have performed Your pleasure and my promise.
Then we are rid of Litio.
That I’ll try.
Some say the lark makes sweet division.
Princes and counties!
Oh, wretched villain!
O monstrous, monstrous!
For Falstaff, he is dead, and we must earn therefore.
Of Albany’s and Cornwall’s powers you heard not?
Bruisèd pieces, go.
O villain!
I am hitherto your daughter.
Let us quit all And give our vineyards to a barbarous people.
Go, one, and call the Jew into the court.
For the love of God, your help!
I am transformèd, master, am I not?
This deed I’ll do before this purpose cool.
What news?
Oh well done!
Oh, treason of the blood!
Upon what cause?
That which ordinary men are fit for, I am qualified in.
What news from her?
Fair and noble hostess, We are your guest tonight.
His word is more than the miraculous harp.
Good beauties, let me sustain no scorn.
There is some strange thing toward, Edmund.
O, come in, equivocator.
I have almost forgot the taste of fears.
God be wi' you, princes all.
I know his gait, ’tis he.—Villain, thou diest!
But leave it all to God.
Say she shall be a high and mighty queen.
Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home?
My liege, I am advisèd what I say, Neither disturbed with the effect of wine, Nor heady-rash, provoked with raging ire, Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad.
Come, for the third, Laertes.
Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls.
Keep your word, Phoebe, that you’ll marry me Or else, refusing me, to wed this shepherd.
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp?
Now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old I bade her come.
Well then, the peace which you before so urged Lies in his answer.
Me believe it?
Ah, Buckingham, now do I play the touch, To try if thou be current gold indeed.
Seyton!—I am sick at heart, When I behold—Seyton, I say!—This push Will cheer me ever, or disseat me now.
Ay, Biddy, come with me.—What, man!
What meanest thou by that, Malvolio?
What sayst thou, my dear Nurse?
And cries aloud, “Tarry, my cousin Suffolk.
I will forget my nature.
By the mess, ere theise eyes of mine take themselves to slomber, ay’ll de gud service, or I’ll lig i' th' grund for it, ay, or go to death.
The shrill-gorged lark so far Cannot be seen or heard.
What you have charged me with, that have I done— And more, much more.
Here lay Duncan, His silver skin laced with his golden blood, And his gashed stabs looked like a breach in nature For ruin’s wasteful entrance; there, the murderers, Steeped in the colors of their trade, their daggers Unmannerly breeched with gore.
We being strangers here, how dar’st thou trust So great a charge from thine own custody?
Prithee, dispatch.
As sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentle— O Antony!—Nay, I will take thee too.
Good grandam, tell us, is our father dead?
I’ll tell thee, friend, I am almost mad myself.
So smooth he daubed his vice with show of virtue That, his apparent open guilt omitted— I mean his conversation with Shore’s wife— He lived from all attainder of suspects.
Believe me, sir, they butt together well.
Not I, my lord.
Impatient of my absence, And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony Have made themselves so strong—for with her death That tidings came—with this she fell distract And, her attendants absent, swallowed fire.
This dagger hath mista'en—for, lo, his house Is empty on the back of Montague, And it mis-sheathèd in my daughter’s bosom.
The rate— Well, Shylock, shall we be beholding to you?
Thou liest, thou thread, thou thimble, Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail!
Pursue him and entreat him to a peace.
Does’t not go well?
Fly?
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
Fare thee well.
My lord is not my lord, nor should I know him Were he in favor as in humor altered.
Pronounce.
Thou hast my love.
There let him sink, and be the seas on him!
By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of this great world.
She’s a beagle, true-bred, and one that adores me.
Tomorrow will we be married.
Even just the sum that I do owe to you Is growing to me by Antipholus.
He lies tonight within seven leagues of Rome.
There’s comfort yet; they are assailable.
Here’s the friar ready.
Fie, what a question’s that If thou wert near a lewd interpreter!
Where’s my cousin Toby?
I have but with a cursitory eye O'erglanced the articles.
She mocks all her wooers out of suit.
That’s as we list to grace him.
You would be satisfied?
If ever I live to see it, I will challenge it.
Methinks his words do from such passion fly, That he believes himself.
And yet my sky shall not want.
Trouble yourselves no further.
Is this a prologue or the posy of a ring?
I cannot tell what you and other men Think of this life, but, for my single self, I had as lief not be as live to be In awe of such a thing as I myself.
What says my lord?
What’s thy name?
But stop my house’s ears—I mean my casements— Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter My sober house.
Casca, you are the first that rears your hand.
She is persuaded I will marry her, out of her own love and flattery, not out of my promise.
Tis a day Such as the day is when the sun is hid.
You, sir?
Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth?
Therefore I’ll sleep again.
There are the players.
Towards him I made, but he was 'ware of me And stole into the covert of the wood.
Fortune is an excellent moral.
Let pity not be believed.” There she shook The holy water from her heavenly eyes, And clamor moistened.
Marry, patience, Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen, And nothing of a man.
What are his words?
Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
Caesar’s.
This, Casca.
Oh that I knew this husband, which, you say, must charge his horns with garlands!
Ay.
Here comes Antony.
Went’st not thou to her for a purse of ducats?
Caesar, I go.
Tis even so, For let our finger ache and it endues Our other healthful members even to that sense Of pain.
I have years on my back forty- eight.
A friend.
Unless the master were the man.
But since the affairs of men rest still incertain, Let’s reason with the worst that may befall.
Where is my love?
Look how he laughs already!
I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.
A heavy sight!
I am not sorry neither.
I love you the better; the hearers may cry “Amen.” God match me with a good dancer!
Give me your hand.
As I discern, It burneth in the Capels' monument.
O excellent device— and make a sop of him.
Seek thine own ease.
Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great matter in the ditty, yet the note was very untunable.
How dost thou, Benedick, the married man?
Hear you the news abroad?
Orsino.
Kiss him for that, good widow.
There I deny my land service.
Ye say honestly.
But not, as I am, royal.
What is the news?
But, if you were the devil, you are fair.
And these does she apply for warnings and portents And evils imminent, and on her knee Hath begged that I will stay at home today.
Yet thou liest in the bleak air.
Plantagenet.
I do not think so.
Calphurnia!
Beware the ides of March.
If you have any pity, grace, or manners, You would not make me such an argument.
Hang thou there upon the tomb, Praising her when I am dumb.
Have you the lion’s part written?
Lepidus is high-colored.
Where is my mother?
I will run, fiend.
Not so, neither.
Or, if you will, Come home to me, and I will wait for you.
We’ll wait upon your lordship.
He is not here.
My name is Mary, sir.
Begone.— On, officer, to prison till it come.
You are now within a foot Of th' extreme verge.
I wonder that you will still be talking, Signor Benedick.
Your grace hath laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
God in heaven bless her!
He knows not yet of his honorable fortune.
Here I am.
If not, why then this parting was well made.
Go in with me.
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome, While I with selfsame kindness welcome thine.
Thy false uncle— Dost thou attend me?
Some o’ their plants are ill-rooted already.
We’ll mutiny.
What’s the matter, dear?
Fortune pursue thee!
I have many enemies in Orsino’s court, Else would I very shortly see thee there.
Go, prepare for dinner.
The poop was beaten gold, Purple the sails, and so perfumèd that The winds were lovesick with them.
What should I speak?
Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while, Till we can clear these ambiguities And know their spring, their head, their true descent, And then will I be general of your woes, And lead you even to death.
For what is he they follow?
Away, go away!
O, name him not.
You look angerly.
May one be pardoned and retain th' offense?
Here comes Baptista.
What wilt thou do for her?
Iago?
Doth he not mend?
For I mine own gained knowledge should profane If I would time expend with such a snipe But for my sport and profit.
A very fine one.
No, you shall pardon me.
Your servant Kent.
Not a mouse stirring.
Laugh to scorn The power of man, for none of woman born Shall harm Macbeth.  
Twas he informed against him, And quit the house on purpose that their punishment Might have the freer course.
I pray thee, sing, and let me woo no more.
But wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
She shall not harm thee, Helena.
What, may it please you, shall I do at Salisbury?
Be not disturbed with my infirmity.
With his own bolt;     the strong-based promontory Have I made shake, and by the spurs plucked up The pine and cedar; graves at my command Have waked their sleepers, oped, and let 'em forth By my so potent art.
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you.
An if I could, what should I get therefore?
You men of Cyprus, let her have your knees.
This broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter, and, my fortunes against any lay worth naming, this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before.
Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates?
Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast, Ready with every nod to tumble down Into the fatal bowels of the deep.
You speak to Casca, and to such a man That is no fleering telltale.
Their residence, both in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
I’ll not fail, if I live.
What is the matter?
When I did make thee free, swor’st thou not then To do this when I bade thee?
This, Cinna.
Signior Gremio, came you from the church?
No marvel though she pause; They can be meek that have no other cause.
That we should, with joy, pleasance revel and applause, transform ourselves into beasts!
He is called Aunchient Pistol.
Oh, damn her, damn her!
Thou protector of this damnèd strumpet, Talk’st thou to me of “ifs”?
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most prepost'rous conclusions.
And here will rest me.
God pardon them that are the cause thereof.
And never could maintain his part but in the force of his will.
She that was ever fair and never proud, Had tongue at will and yet was never loud, Never lacked gold and yet went never gay, Fled from her wish and yet said “Now I may,” She that being angered, her revenge being nigh, Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly, She that in wisdom never was so frail To change the cod’s head for the salmon’s tail, She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind, See suitors following and not look behind, She was a wight, if ever such wights were— To do what?
Let me be satisfied.
And thy father Was Duke of Milan, and thou his only heir And princess no worse issued.
Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest.
What were his marks?
Unknit that threat'ning unkind brow And dart not scornful glances from those eyes To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor.
He did command me to call timely on him.
O Kate, content thee.
Caesar, all hail!
For the heavens, he shows me where the bachelors sit, and there live we as merry as the day is long.
Here is the man.
Let him go up into the public chair.
Think, my lord?
Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us And show us to be watchers.
Monster, I will kill this man.
Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
This health to Lepidus!
About the wood go swifter than the wind, And Helena of Athens look thou find— All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer, With sighs of love, that costs the fresh blood dear.
His company must do his minions grace, Whilst I at home starve for a merry look.
Come on, to ’t.
How now, gentleman?
No, my good lord.
Beshrew my very heart, I think you are happy in this second match, For it excels your first.
What is your name?
Thou liest.
No eyes in your head, nor no money in your purse?
And liegemen to the Dane.
The king comes here tonight.
Was I with you there for the goose?
Enough, I am engaged.
Her vine, the merry cheerer of the heart, Unprunèd, dies.
What will you give me now For the same handkerchief?
And jealous Oberon would have the child Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild.
He is as disproportioned in his manners As in his shape.— Take with you your companions.
I never saw the chain, so help me heaven, And this is false you burden me withal.
But wherefore do you hold me here so long?
See how she leans her cheek upon her hand.
The duke of Exeter doth love thee well.
It hath the primal eldest curse upon ’t, A brother’s murder.
I am no traitor.
That’s certain.
Ay, gentle cousin, were it light enough.
He hath lost his fellows And strays about to find 'em.
But dead they are, and devilish slave, by thee.
No, ’twas the vane on the house.
Good my lord, give me thy favor still.
See where he looks out of the window.
Why, thou sayst well.
He says so.
Neither can be enjoyed If both remain alive.
With his eyes full of anger.
Begin these woodbirds but to couple now?
Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds By what you see them act.
Take their examination yourself and bring it me.
I’ll keep my oath Patiently to bear my wroth.”
What are you there?
How is’t with you, sir?
Beshrew him for ’t!
Your Honor wins bad humors.
On thy life I charge thee, hold!
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet.
What noise is here?
Kent, sir, the banished Kent, who in disguise Followed his enemy king and did him service Improper for a slave.
Is ’t good or bad?
Madam, I wish it may.
Another general shout!
Let us go.
There’s some conceit or other likes him well When that he bids good morrow with such spirit.
Thy father!
Time calls upon ’s.
O heavy day!
O my lord, my lord, Forgive my fearful sails!
Tis true, my brother’s daughter’s Queen of Tunis, So is she heir of Naples, ’twixt which regions There is some space.
There’s not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.
Sooth, but you must.
Thou know’st ’tis common.
Are you sure That we are awake?
No seconds?
O you sir, you, come you hither, sir.
What is thy will with her?
What’s the matter, lieutenant?
He left this ring behind him, Would I or not.
Pray you, tell him I am his fortune’s vassal, and I send him The greatness he has got.
A husband?
Come, bring us, bring us where he is.
My lord?
Ha' to thee, lad!
Ay, forsooth.
Hot, hot, and moist.
It only stands Our lives upon to use our strongest hands.
She died, my lord, but whiles her slander lived.
Here we.
Stars, my lord.
So, come, help.
It stops me here, it is too much of joy.
I go; and towards three or four o'clock Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.
Is it so, countrymen?
The day is broke.
Hence his ambition growing— Dost thou hear?
Provide your going; Choose your own company and command what cost Your heart has mind to.
And so it is.
Thou art in a parlous state, shepherd. 
Good morrow, Richmond.
He dreams.
Why, he that cuts off twenty years of life Cuts off so many years of fearing death.
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon.
Her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows, Swears he will shoot no more, but play with sparrows And be a boy right out.
O wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame?
 full of showers.
Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
Oh, my dear Cassio!
Out.
I know not, madam.
Not Hermia but Helena I love.
Now must I to the monument alone.
Well, Brutus, thou art noble.
He was not merry, Which seemed to tell them his remembrance lay In Egypt with his joy, but between both.
If he break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling.
O God, Horatio, what a wounded name, Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
Come, thou day in night, For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night Whiter than new snow upon a raven’s back.
Oh, rarely base!
Stand still.
And though I make this marriage for my peace, I’ th’ East my pleasure lies.
Ere I would say I would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen, I would change my humanity with a baboon.
That’s he that was Othello.
He calls me “boy” and chides as he had power To beat me out of Egypt.
Ay; and let none enter, lest I break your pate.
There is not enough leek to swear by.
Prithee, say on.
What, so brief?
Why, he is the Prince’s jester, a very dull fool, only his gift is in devising impossible slanders.
Yea,” quoth he, “Dost thou fall upon thy face?
Let life be short, else shame will be too long.
The sorrow that I have by right is yours, And all the pleasures you usurp are mine.
What mercy can you render him, Antonio?
Rosalind is your love’s name?
The concavities of it is not sufficient, for, look you, th' athversary, you may discuss unto the duke, look you, is digt himself four yard under the countermines.
Where are they?
If not, the Fates with traitors do contrive.
Shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of her love?
Last thing he did, dear Queen, He kissed—the last of many doubled kisses— This orient pearl.
To what effect?
How, the nonpareil!
I wish, forbear.
This was the noblest Roman of them all.
The most infectious pestilence upon thee!
All this done, Repair to Pompey’s porch, where you shall find us.
Whither will you that I go To answer this your charge?
O Lord!
Gramercy!
You see how simple and how fond I am.
Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself.
If our eyes had authority, here they might take two thieves kissing.
That from your first of difference and decay Have followed your sad steps.
I have drunk but one cup tonight, and that was craftily qualified too, and behold what innovation it makes here.
It is even so.
Am I the motive of these tears, my lord?
She lives.
Proculeius, What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows, And he hath sent for thee.
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart Absent thee from felicity a while, And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain To tell my story.
You shall be soon dispatched with fair conditions.
I’ll write thee a challenge.
I know her answer.
Trust me, I could do much— Prithee, no more.
I will stand, and so shall Trinculo.
Sleep a little.
Is this face Hero’s?
Nay, certainly, I have heard the Ptolemies’ pyramises are very goodly things.
O ye gods, Render me worthy of this noble wife!
Talk not, Signior Gremio.
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep, Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep, And kill me too.
In thee there is not half an hour of life.
Wilt thou lift up Olympus?
The time is free.
Why, true, he means to make a puppet of thee.
I’ll help you to a horse.
Talkest thou nothing but of ladies?
Nor would we deign him burial of his men Till he disbursed at Saint Colme’s Inch Ten thousand dollars to our general use.
Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.
Is this true?
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
O, fie, fie, fie!
Even such delight Among fresh fennel buds shall you this night Inherit at my house.
And he that hath commanded is our king.
Will you shog off? 
Hear my soul speak.
Ah, dear, if I be so, From my cold heart let heaven engender hail, And poison it in the source, and the first stone Drop in my neck.
He would not have spoke such a word.
Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
Dear my lord, Be not familiar with her.
You cannot revel into dukedoms there.
A fine woman!
I thank you, sir.
Tis dangerous to be spoken.
Whither?
Well, I would you did like me.
Let me but bind it hard, within this hour It will be well.
Now shall you see the other.
Caesar, and that, having in Sicily Sextus Pompeius spoiled, we had not rated him His part o’ th’ isle.
A sailor’s wife had chestnuts in her lap, And munched, and munched, and munched.
Tell me that.
My voice is ragged.
Go, go, dispatch.
Nay, weep not, gentle Eros.
Fare you well, boy.
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes A pair of star-crossed lovers take their life, Whose misadventured piteous overthrows Doth with their death bury their parents' strife.
Foul deeds will rise, Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men’s eyes.
It is a poison tempered by himself.
Nor I.
What’s your name, friend?
Fare you well, sir.
This is not the way To win your daughter.
Your children shall be kings.
But to Orlando
Kind souls, what, weep you when you but behold Our Caesar’s vesture wounded?
You know not why we came to visit you— Thus out of season, threading dark-eyed night.
And so far am I glad it so did sort, As this their jangling I esteem a sport.
So they are.
Here is yet a postscript.
Bate, I beseech you, widow Dido.
And, sir, tonight I do entreat that we may sup together.
I’ll tell thee, Aliena, I cannot be out of the sight of Orlando.
You are welcome to Elsinore.
Nay, pray you throw none away.
He was not born to shame.
Bemonster not thy feature.
Be not so hasty to confound my meaning.
Is ’t not well done? 
Ay, every man away.
I knew it would be your answer.
Do not, my lord.
Satan, avoid!
Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
Speak within door.
If what he might he is not, I would to heaven he were!
Good!
My duty hushes me.
It waves me forth again.
I once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus
He had none.
All my reports go with the modest truth, Nor more, nor clipped, but so.
Chill not let go, zir, without vurther 'casion.
The British powers are marching hitherward.
Pray now, rest yourself.
I will seek Some way to leave him.
Pray thee, corporal, stay.
What hast thou been?
Do so.
Here’s more news.
His letter there Will show you his estate.
Why, one that swears and lies.
Grandam, his nurse.
Come, thou mortal wretch, With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate Of life at once untie.
Good night.
Is ’t possible?
How goes it here?
But I would be loath to fall into my dreams again.
I loved him, friend— No father his son dearer.
It begins “Hold thy peace.” I shall never begin if I hold my peace.
That’s strange.
The generals would have some words.
Forget to think of her.
Prithee, if thou lovest me, tell me.
Shake off this downy sleep, death’s counterfeit, And look on death itself!
Rebels it at these years?
This is the sergeant Who like a good and hardy soldier fought 'Gainst my captivity.
I’ll not fight with thee.
Romeo slew Tybalt.
Next month with us.
To do this is within the compass of man’s wit, and therefore I will attempt the doing it.
Do this suddenly, And let not search and inquisition quail To bring again these foolish runaways.
And so far blameless proves my enterprise, That I have 'nointed an Athenian’s eyes.
Here Catesby comes again.
We shall, my liege.
A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a poor drunkard.
But, for true need— You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need.
Thou stickest a dagger in me.
A heavy summons lies like lead upon me, And yet I would not sleep.
Not now, sweet Desdemona.
Say that I wish he never find more cause To change a master.
Master, knock the door hard.
Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle of hay.
Save means to live.
Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste, And get you from our court.
Bad is the world, and all will come to naught When such ill dealing must be seen in thought.
In the same figure like the king that’s dead.
She had a song of “Willow,” An old thing ’twas, but it expressed her fortune And she died singing it.
We’ll have thee, as our rarer monsters are, Painted on a pole, and underwrit, “Here may you see the tyrant.”      I will not yield, To kiss the ground before young Malcolm’s feet, And to be baited with the rabble’s curse.
By my troth, it is well said.
If she should make tender of her love, ’tis very possible he’ll scorn it, for the man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.
The time has been my senses would have cooled To hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir As life were in ’t.
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench.
Why are you grown so rude?
Marian, I say!
These are now the fashion, and so berattle the common stages—so they call them—that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose quills and dare scarce come thither.
Signior Brabantio, ho!
If you shall cleave to my consent, when ’tis, It shall make honor for you.
Nothing but songs of death.
Oh, so light a foot Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint.
But Oh, how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man’s eyes.
And so, adieu.
Come, my fair Cordelia.
Marry, and it shall be done tomorrow morning if I live.
The quality of mercy is not strained.
I pray you, speak not.
Then do but say to me what I should do That in your knowledge may by me be done, And I am pressed unto it.
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world?
Peace, ho!
I doubt not of his temperance.
You will compel me, then, to read the will?
My lord, your nobles, jealous of your absence, Seek through your camp to find you.
No jutty, frieze, Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle.
Souls and bodies hath he divorced three, and his incensement at this moment is so implacable that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death and sepulchre.
Yet that is but a crushed necessity, Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries And pretty traps to catch the petty thieves.
Let him go And presently prefer his suit to Caesar.
Happy be Theseus, our renownèd duke.
In what, my dear lord?
I saw him yesterday”—or “t' other day,” Or then, or then, with such or such—“and, as you say, There was he gaming, there o'ertook in’s rouse, There falling out at tennis,” or, perchance, “I saw him enter such a house of sale”—   Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth.
Fair sir, and you, my merry mistress, That with your strange encounter much amazed me, My name is called Vincentio, my dwelling Pisa, And bound I am to Padua, there to visit A son of mine which long I have not seen.
 I don’t care who eats at my expense.
That I disdain.
What dost thou say?
It is a monster Begot upon itself, born on itself.
I will hold friends with you, lady.
They are not ever jealous for the cause, But jealous for they’re jealous.
Who, he?
What do you mean, my lord?
Bid farewell to your sisters.
What did thy song bode, lady?
That a monster should be such a natural!
Captain Macmorris, when there is more better opportunity to be required, look you, I will be so bold as to tell you I know the disciplines of war, and there is an end. 
Which of you—if you were a prince’s son Being pent from liberty, as I am now— If two such murderers as yourselves came to you, Would not entreat for life?
We must starve our sight From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight.
Edmund is dead, my lord.
Will it eat me?
Well, my good lord, I’ll do ’t.
Well, be it so.
Shame, and eternal shame, nothing but shame!
Had I as many sons as I have hairs, I would not wish them to a fairer death.
With another, for tying his new shoes with old ribbon?
Now she’s gone for ever.— Cordelia, Cordelia, stay a little.
Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler?
Speak to me.
There’s money for thee.
Do not approach Till thou dost hear me call.
There was a pretty redness in his lip, A little riper and more lusty red Than that mixed in his cheek
It shall be done, my lord.
Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
I found not Cassio’s kisses on her lips.
Am I not stayed for?
At this same ancient feast of Capulet’s Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so loves With all the admired beauties of Verona.
Our house is hell, and thou, a merry devil, Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.
Well, let it be.— What ho, Malvolio!
All for your delight We are not here.
Ready to go, but never to return.
I met her deity Cutting the clouds towards Paphos, and her son Dove-drawn with her.
What, is he angry?
Hark, how these instruments summon to supper.
I would be sorry, sir, but the fool should be as oft with your master as with my mistress
I pray you, sir, hold your hand.
Whence is that knocking?
I but believe it partly, For I am fresh of spirit and resolved To meet all perils very constantly.
You lie.
Here’s a good world the while.
Cousins, you know what you have to do.—O, I cry you mercy, friend.
To bait fish withal.
Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of Don John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
An if you plead as well for them As I can say “nay” to thee for myself, No doubt we bring it to a happy issue.
Are we all met?
But soft!
These lily lips, This cherry nose, These yellow cowslip cheeks Are gone, are gone.
So be gone.
When we our betters see bearing our woes, We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
And thither will I straight to visit him.
I never heard So musical a discord, such sweet thunder.
Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils, Shrunk to this little measure?
No more but e’en a woman, and commanded By such poor passion as the maid that milks And does the meanest chares.
My brother and thy uncle, called Antonio— I pray thee, mark me (that a brother should Be so perfidious!
Hast thou not dropped from heaven?
Fret till your proud heart break.
If that be to care for nothing, sir, I would it would make you invisible.
For thy escape would teach me tyranny, To hang clogs on them.—I have done, my lord.
Went he hence now?
Notwithstanding, use your pleasure.
Vengeance, plague, death, confusion!
I tell thee true.
This sight would make him do a desperate turn, Yea, curse his better angel from his side And fall to reprobation.
Come, I will have thee, but, by this light, I take thee for pity.
My heart is sorry for your daughter’s death, But, on my honor, she was charged with nothing But what was true and very full of proof.
I’ll seal to such a bond, And say there is much kindness in the Jew.
Very well.
Is it the fashion that discarded fathers Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?
His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine.
For my dinner.
Hold, hold, my heart, And you, my sinews, grow not instant old, But bear me stiffly up.
That ever I should call thee castaway!
Sir, my liege, Do not infest your mind with beating on The strangeness of this business.
At every house I’ll call.
But you, my honorable lords, may name the time, And in the duke’s behalf I’ll give my voice, Which I presume he’ll take in gentle part.
For England his approaches makes as fierce As waters to the sucking of a gulf.
What, and stake down?
Good night, Penthesilea.
Poor painted queen, vain flourish of my fortune, Why strew’st thou sugar on that bottled spider, Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about?
To answer by the method, in the first of his heart.
And therefore, like herself—wise, fair and true— Shall she be placèd in my constant soul.
Ah, for my husband, for my dear lord Edward!
Come, sit on me.
I pant for life.
Alas the day, it did.
What, with my tongue in your tail?
Such as I am, I come from Antony.
Methought I had, and often did I strive To yield the ghost, but still the envious flood Stopped in my soul and would not let it forth To find the empty, vast, and wand'ring air, But smothered it within my panting bulk, Who almost burst to belch it in the sea.
Give thy thoughts no tongue, Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
Thou didst promise To bate me a full year.
Uncle, I must come forth.
The world is grown so bad That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch.
Yet my heart Throbs to know one thing.
Fie, there is no such man.
And came I not at last to comfort you?
Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip, Walter, Sugarsop, and the rest.
Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord, Are joyfully returned.
Is ’t possible?
I am tied to th' stake, and I must stand the course.
The lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard.
He is enamored on Hero.
I’ll fetch the general’s surgeon.— Save you your labor.—He that lies slain here, Cassio, Was my dear friend.
 death.
I will go with thee.
I will not stay behind.
And good monsieur, have a care the honey bag break not.
God give him joy!
But for all this thou shalt have as many dolors for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year.
Pray you, avoid it.
And yet it is not
I go.
What, household stuff?
Show me briefly how.
Run to the Capitol, and nothing else?
Murder?
Give me answer to it.
Dear love, adieu.— Anon, good Nurse!—Sweet Montague, be true.
Yours, yours.
Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying—a place in the commonwealth—as which of you shall not?
We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will obey.
You take my life When you do take the means whereby I live.
Shall I lay perjury upon my soul?
Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perched, Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands, Who to Philippi here consorted us.
The royal tree hath left us royal fruit, Which, mellowed by the stealing hours of time, Will well become the seat of majesty, And make, no doubt, us happy by his reign.
Within this three hours will fair Juliet wake.
Withdraw, my lord.
Even now we housed him in the abbey here, And now he’s there, past thought of human reason.
Mine shall be spent When theirs are dry, for Romeo’s banishment.
Oh, then, what graces in my love do dwell, That he hath turned a heaven unto a hell!
No, sir, the worse.
I cannot live to hear the news from England.
Do not say so, my lord.
Oh, do but think You stand upon the rivage and behold A city on th' inconstant billows dancing, For so appears this fleet majestical Holding due course to Harfleur.
Oh, fie!
I shall win at the odds.
I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
He is sad and civil And suits well for a servant with my fortunes.
And sometime lurk I in a gossip’s bowl In very likeness of a roasted crab, And when she drinks, against her lips I bob And on her withered dewlap pour the ale.
Let the world see His nobleness well acted, which your death Will never let come forth.
I marry her!
I pray you sir, go forth And give us truth who ’tis that is arrived.
Why are you drawn?
Hail!
Enter, sir, the castle.
Come.
In the meantime, let me be that I am, and seek not to alter me.
My bond to the Jew is forfeit.
News, old news, and such news as you never heard of!
No.
At our synagogue, Tubal. 
His son is thirty.
If she convey Letters to Richmond, you shall answer it.
I was hurt under your arm.
Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
No more.
By any other house or person?
The sun doth gild our armor.
Marry, it is your brother’s right hand.
And lovers' absent hours More tedious than the dial eightscore times!
I know thee not.
Here’s snip and nip and cut and slish and slash, Like to a censer in a barber’s shop.
Now all the blessings Of a glad father, compass thee about.
Wash your hands.
I know it well, sir.
This was not counterfeit.
As I suck blood, I will some mercy show.
Get thee to a nunnery, go.
Nay, I will give thee a kiss.
Drones hive not with me.
Why, she is within.
Sojourn in Mantua.
I dare swear this is the right Vincentio.   
I thank you for your pains.
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go I toward Aragon.
But give me your hand, Menas.
Thus die I, thus, thus, thus.
I do not like your faults.
For I am he am born to tame you, Kate, And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate Conformable as other household Kates.
And seemed I ever otherwise to you?
Very well.
Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I called thee?
Is all things ready for the royal time?
O sir, you are old.
For my part, the sea cannot drown me.
He brings you figs.
Nay, I bear it on my shoulders as a beggar wont her brat, and I think when he hath lamed me, I shall beg with it from door to door.
To one of your receiving Enough is shown.
The Prince and Claudio promised by this hour To visit me.—You know your office, brother.
Therefore, put money in thy purse.
Thus must I from the smoke into the smother, From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother.
Your mother.
Where lies he?
If sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian and supersubtle Venetian be not too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell, thou shalt enjoy her.
It hath made me mad.
Labio and Flavio, set our battles on.
Never till this day Saw I him touched with anger so distempered.
 how many boys and girls will I have?
how am I beset!— What kind of catechizing call you this?
Say that I did all this for love of her.
Wonder not till further warrant.
Could not a worm, an adder, do so much?
Can no prayers pierce thee?
The matter?
Oh, help!
While grace is saying, hood mine eyes Thus with my hat, and sigh and say, “Amen”— Use all the observance of civility Like one well studied in a sad ostent To please his grandam, never trust me more.
He’s in Arthur’s bosom, if ever man went to Arthur’s bosom.
Caesar did write for him to come to Rome.
Jove bless thee, master Parson.
I pray you.
Thou shalt, I warrant thee.
Mark how the tyrant writes.
Ay, to a niggardly host and more sparing guest.
Wherefore storm you so?
He seems to have a foreknowledge of that too, and therefore comes to speak with you.
Let me see your eyes.
I will, my liege.
And therefore will come.
O Banquo, Banquo, Our royal master’s murdered!
Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues.
Zounds, hold your peace.
Report is changeable.
The better for thy friends.
I will, my lord.
Did you know him?
A surgeon!
I know not, madam.
His answer was, the people were not used To be spoke to but by the recorder.
Why, thou say’st true.
You have obtained it.
Do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical?
Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours.
It is an honor that I dream not of.
I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee.
Go you before, and I will follow you.
With duty and desire we follow you.
I am sure you are not Launcelot, my boy.
Prithee say true!
Three thousand ducats, well.
And then the boy, his clerk, That took some pains in writing, he begged mine.
Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
Oh, mickle is the powerful grace that lies In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities.
Perchance?
Fare thee well.
he whom next thyself Of all the world I loved and to him put The manage of my state, as at that time Through all the signories it was the first, And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed In dignity, and for the liberal arts Without a parallel.
I did send, After the last enchantment you did here, A ring in chase of you.
Your father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them.
Rarely, rarely.
My best endeavours shall be done herein.
Will you enforce me to a world of cares?
Let him alone.
He speaks to me.—I am your master, Dromio.
Then ’tis he
No, my lord.
Thy name is Gloucester.
Then wherefore should I doubt?
What Adam dost thou mean?
And all my children?
Sir, most heedfully.
I have ’t in my nose too.
Dispatch us with all speed, lest that our king Come here himself to question our delay, For he is footed in this land already.
Who does do you wrong?
Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?
How low am I?
Knock you here, sir?
Wherefore, sweetheart?
She gave it him, and he hath given it his whore.
They have tied me to a stake.
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead, And Paris too.
Gloucester, ’tis true that we are in great danger.
This is nothing, Fool.
Sir, He is with Caesar.
But for the whole world?
Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way to Master Jew’s?
How long hath he been there?
I will fetch you light, and paper, and ink.
So hath my lord dared him to single fight.
Go hence.
Who does i’ th’ wars more than his captain can Becomes his captain’s captain; and ambition, The soldier’s virtue, rather makes choice of loss Than gain which darkens him.
My charms I’ll break, their senses I’ll restore, And they shall be themselves.
Edward’s unhappy sons do bid thee flourish.
We must not now displease him.
Make good room.
Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more.
Now entertain conjecture of a time When creeping murmur and the poring dark Fills the wide vessel of the universe.
Speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.
Here I am Antony, Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave.
O earth, which this blood drink’st revenge his death!
Why, in good time.  
Cassio’s a proper man.
What, is he dead?
By my heel, I care not.
Stand here, make a good show on ’t.
Say what you will, sir, but I know what I know.
Come, Antonio.
Who hath relieved you?
Come the next sabbath, and I will content you.
Tomorrow is the joyful day, Audrey.
Name the day of marriage, and God give thee joy.
Briefly, sir.
 here he comes.
Tranio, let’s go.
Farewell.
I am bound to your niece, sir.
And if I cannot, I’ll find those that shall.
Thou didst usurp my place, and dost thou not Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow?
But will my Rosalind do so?
We’ll enter all together.
I do remember in this shepherd boy Some lively touches of my daughter’s favor.
Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
The one the other poisoned for my sake, And after slew herself.
So that my speed to Mantua there was stayed.
Take heed o' th' foul fiend.
I should ev'n die with pity To see another thus.
Faith, there has been much to do on both sides, and the nation holds it no sin to tar them to controversy.
Gertrude, do not drink.
Believe me, no.
Let it alone, thou fool.
Write down Prince John a villain.
A plague o' both your houses!
She is cunning past man’s thought.
Speak.
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
By which honor I dare not swear thou lovest me, yet my blood begins to flatter me that thou dost, notwithstanding the poor and untempering effect of my visage.
And so he fell.
My lord, the enemy is past the marsh.
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Our fraughtage, sir, I have conveyed aboard, and I have bought The oil, the balsamum and aqua vitae.
Where’s Publius?
Swear by your double self, And there’s an oath of credit!
He lies not like the living.
Twas the boy that stole your meat, and you’ll beat the post.
Moreover that we much did long to see you, The need we have to use you did provoke Our hasty sending.
He said the truth.
Grandam, one night as we did sit at supper, My uncle Rivers talked how I did grow More than my brother
Go, get thee gone, I say.
Would I might never O’ertake pursued success, but I do feel, By the rebound of yours, a grief that smites My very heart at root.
And mine, two hundred.
I hear a knocking At the south entry.
Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
Marcus Luccicos, is not he in town?
We’ll draw cuts for the signior.
I have made it for you.
Hail to thee, thane of Glamis!
Is ’t possible?
Let me be put to death.
So please you.
Repent but you that you shall lose your friend, And he repents not that he pays your debt.
I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are.
He is simply the most active gentleman of France.
Not we.
I could tell you more news too.
I would not change it.
In this time of the night?
Nay, he hath but a little beard.
Farewell, kind Charmian.
I’ll not endure it.
Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return.
See better, Lear, and let me still remain The true blank of thine eye.
The wonder is he hath endured so long.
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel.
I hourly learn A doctrine of obedience, and would gladly Look him i’ th’ face.
Tis noble Kent, your friend.
Sit then and talk with her.
No.
Demetrius thinks not so.
So kind a father!—Be my horses ready?
This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard.
This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man’s funeral.
Think you I am no stronger than my sex, Being so fathered and so husbanded?
Look you, if you take the matter otherwise than is meant, Captain Macmorris, peradventure I shall think you do not use me with that affability as, in discretion, you ought to use me, look you, being as good a man as yourself, both in the disciplines of war and in the derivation of my birth and in other particularities.
But, as he was ambitious, I slew him.
For the poor wren, The most diminutive of birds, will fight, Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
There, My music playing far off, I will betray Tawny-finned fishes.
That can I.
O, then by day Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough To mask thy monstrous visage?
From helmet to the spur, all blood he was.
I have lived long enough.
He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo— By the bad voice.
Warm, o' my troth.
Did ’t not wake you?
I will fall prostrate at his feet And never rise until my tears and prayers Have won his grace to come in person hither And take perforce my husband from the Abbess.
I will kiss thy lips.
What, not a whore?
What do I see on thee?
Do you confess the bond?
All’s one.
Have patience, sir.
I will carry no crotchets.
Come, sit, sit, and a song.
You’ll be sick tomorrow For this night’s watching.
It seems to me That yet we sleep, we dream.
Marry, sir, they praise me and make an ass of me, now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass.
He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop, that they come from my niece, and that she’s in love with him.
For he is, sure, i' th' island.
If the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating coxcomb, is it meet, think you, that we should also, look you, be an ass and a fool and a prating coxcomb, in your own conscience, now?
It may be, these apparent prodigies, The unaccustomed terror of this night, And the persuasion of his augurers May hold him from the Capitol today.
Is this the king we sent to for his ransom?
Alas, gentlemen— Help, ho!— Lieutenant—sir, Montano— Help, masters!—Here’s a goodly watch indeed!
There’s a strong fellow, Menas.
Who was it?
I would have you.
Mark how he trembles in his ecstasy.
I will bring you thither.
Believe then, if you please, that I can do strange things.
Where, where?
Know we this face or no?
I will make your peace with him if I can. 
An thou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but discords.
Most sure and vulgar.
Write to him— I will subscribe—gentle adieus and greetings.
Sweet saint, for charity, be not so curst.
Even so.
Is ’t possible, friend Litio, that mistress Bianca Doth fancy any other but Lucentio?
Tomorrow, soldier, By sea and land I’ll fight.
Tomorrow I intend to hunt again.
To vail the title, as her mother doth.
Our expectation hath this day an end.
Can you remember any of the principal evils that he laid to the charge of women?
Her name is Katherina Minola, Renowned in Padua for her scolding tongue.
I long that we were safe and sound aboard.
There’s no offense, my lord.
But I will not stir from this place, do what they can.
Dromio—thou, Dromio—thou snail, thou slug, thou sot.
Would you not have me honest?
Now am I Dromio, and his man, unbound.
Let me hire him too.—Here’s my coxcomb.
Give him the cup.
Both one and other he denies me now.
Now all the youth of England are on fire, And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies.
For this pains Caesar hath hanged him.
Cursed be I that did so!
There’s not a one of them but in his house I keep a servant fee’d.
Pronounce that sentence then on me, my liege.
Give me your hand.
They shall have none, I swear, but these my joints, Which, if they have, as I will leave 'em them, Shall yield them little.
If it be mine, Keep it not from me.
Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.
Is he well?
Shake!” quoth the dovehouse.
Will you go, coz?
They’ll tell all.
Canidius, Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land, And our twelve thousand horse.
My mistress, dearest, and I thus humble ever.
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
Out of their saddles into the dirt, and thereby hangs a tale.
I frown the while, and perchance wind up watch, or play with my—some rich jewel.
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
Cheerly, good Adam. 
Tybalt would kill thee, But thou slew’st Tybalt—there art thou happy.
An now tell me, how doth your cousin?
Why?
If any, speak—for him have I offended.
Were we not born under Taurus?
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay To hear true shrift.—Come, madam, let’s away.
But yet you draw not iron, for my heart Is true as steel.
Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
Ha, ha.
Good morrow, General.
O my brave Emperor, this is fought indeed!
For his valor cannot carry his discretion, and the fox carries the goose.
Alas, poor Harry of England!
But manhood is melted into curtsies, valor into compliment, and men are only turned into tongue, and trim ones too.
My name is Roderigo.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
Didst thou not hear a noise?
Brother, ho!
How dost thou, my good fellow?
I did think, by the excellent constitution of thy leg, it was formed under the star of a galliard.
We took him for a coward, but he’s the very devil incardinate.
Nothing that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my hopes.
I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.
Hence!
I am no villain.
If thou beest not immortal, look about you.
It is now high suppertime, and the night grows to waste.
I do not know.
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
Bless you, fair dame!
Full many a lady I have eyed with best regard and many a time
Dost thou know me, fellow?
Thy drugs are quick.
My learnèd lord, we pray you to proceed And justly and religiously unfold Why the law Salic that they have in France Or should or should not bar us in our claim.
Thy bed, lust-stained, shall with lust’s blood be spotted.
Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires to speak with you.
 he’s a friend of the duke of Alençon’s.
It is your music, madam, of the house.
I would I could see this taborer.
Not being the worst Stands in some rank of praise.
Shall I be married then tomorrow morning?
If not, he foams at mouth and by and by Breaks out to savage madness.
I will play the swan.
My lady charged my duty in this business.
I’ll make so bold to call, For ’tis my limited service.
Know you where you are, sir?
Up with my tent!—Here will I lie tonight.
These fifteen years you have been in a dream Or, when you waked, so waked as if you slept.
Oh, heavy ignorance!
How doth the prince?
For your life you durst not.
I will weary you then no longer with idle talking.
A gallant curtal-axe upon my thigh, A boar-spear in my hand, and in my heart Lie there what hidden woman’s fear there will, We’ll have a swashing and a martial outside— As many other mannish cowards have That do outface it with their semblances.
Ay, sir.
Give me a kiss.
Do you go back dismayed?
Without contradiction I have heard that.
I could make as true a boast as that if I had a sow to my mistress.
Ay, what else?
Only be patient till we have appeased The multitude, beside themselves with fear, And then we will deliver you the cause, Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him, Have thus proceeded.
And his unbookish jealousy must construe Poor Cassio’s smiles, gestures, and light behavior Quite in the wrong.—How do you now, lieutenant?
Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land, A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements.
I partly know the man.
I prithee, let thy wife attend on her, And bring them after in the best advantage.
Fourscore ducats!
I do not bid thee call.
Caesar is sad, and Lepidus, Since Pompey’s feast, as Menas says, is troubled With the greensickness.
I will o'erlook thy paper.
I like the work well.
How now, how now?
Did I, Charmian, Ever love Caesar so?
Tis truly so.
I speak not yet of proof.
Well, sir, good night.
Tomorrow or next day they will be here.
Yes, Captain, but with this acknowledgement
Wondrous heavy.
Why should you fall into so deep an O?
I will not.
Go charge Agrippa Plant those that have revolted in the vant, That Antony may seem to spend his fury Upon himself.
I shall, my lord.
Let me but move one question to your daughter, And by that fatherly and kindly power That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
Look how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patens of bright gold.
If he, compact of jars, grow musical, We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.
Good people, enter and lay hold on him.
Hillo, ho, ho, boy.
I’ll put ’t in proof.
Yet I’ll not shed her blood, Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow And smooth as monumental alabaster.
Had he done so?
You have said, but whether wisely or no, let the forest judge.
 tell me the full story of what has happened to you and them, up to this point.
What will you do?
When I come where he calls, then he is gone.
Oh, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
I slept the next night well, fed well, was free and merry.
But that I do not.
Meantime, but think how I may do thee good, And be inheritor of thy desire.
And yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company together nowadays.
Let specialties be therefore drawn between us, That covenants may be kept on either hand.
Sir Toby, I must be round with you.
No, indeed are they not.
Yes, they have.
Back you shall not to the house, unless you undertake that with me which with as much safety you might answer him.
But lest myself be guilty to self wrong, I’ll stop mine ears against the mermaid’s song.
My dagger, little cousin?
We’ll see 'em starve first.
My name’s Macbeth.
This is the fool that lent out money gratis.
Let him approach.
One word, sir.
Must she not then be answered?
For, of my heart, those charms, thine eyes, are blotted.
I’ll be at charges for a looking glass And entertain a score or two of tailors To study fashions to adorn my body.
Have the pioneers given o'er?
Question it, Horatio.
How fares our cousin, noble Lord of York?
This by Calphurnia’s dream is signified.
You shall know more hereafter. 
Fair lady, by your leave, I come by note to give and to receive.
Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner.
For God’s love, let me hear.
Come, brother; away!
My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse.
Beat him enough.
With all my heart, and much it joys me too To see you are become so penitent.— Tressel and Berkeley, go along with me.
I will not have to do with you.
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
His eyes were set at eight i' the morning.
I know not.
False justicer, why hast thou let her ’scape?
Here comes my messenger.—How now, mad spirit?
I was killed i' th' Capitol.
Say that she frown; I’ll say she looks as clear As morning roses newly washed with dew.
What kind of woman is’t?
If thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona, take me from this world with treachery and devise engines for my life.
How is ’t, brother!
Lysander, speak again!
An you will not be answered with reason, I must die.
For they shall yet belie thy happy years That say thou art a man.
Is this the monument of Leonato?
Oh, now, who will behold The royal captain of this ruined band
We’ll hear the will.
Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be med'cinable to me.
But what a fool am I to chat with you, When I should bid good morrow to my bride And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
Where is the villain, Edmund?
I set him there, sir, but his own disorders Deserved much less advancement.
I would you were as I would have you be!
Thou hast.
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed.
What, ho!
Sir, I am vexed.
And most dear actors, eat no onions nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath.
Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests; I bear a charmèd life, which must not yield To one of woman born.
How shall we beguile The lazy time if not with some delight?
Here comes the count.
The good years shall devour them, flesh and fell, Ere they shall make us weep.
Petruchio, stand by a while.
Come, come, you’re drunk.
Yet this I will not do, do how I can.
Every hour He flashes into one gross crime or other That sets us all at odds.
Plain and not honest is too harsh a style.
Marry, once before he won it of me with false dice.
To die, to sleep.
We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar, And in the spirit of men there is no blood.
We have done our course.
Well said.
A soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March.
I would I knew thy heart.
I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren rascal.
Arms, take your last embrace.
Peace, peace!
Tis not the king that sends you to the Tower.
No matter whither, so you come not here.
Nay, faith, let me not play a woman.
What enterprise, Popillius?
And begged he pardon?
I have done.
I stand here for law.
An honest mind and plain, he must speak truth.
My mistress, sir,” quoth I.
I make all use of it, for I use it only.
He may command me as my sovereign, But you have power in me as in a kinsman.
Speak softly.
Even now, now, very now, an old black ram Is tupping your white ewe.
How now?
As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed.
Let’s see for means.
What make you from home?
Sirs, take up the corse.
That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.
O excellent young man!
Though it be pity to see such a sight, it well becomes the ground. 
Is she not a modest young lady?
Not I, my lord.
Yours by this hand.
Alas, good Cassio!
You are rather point-device in your accouterments, as loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other.
You are a senator!
But as all is mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal in folly.
Stand, ho!
O Dardanius!
Now welcome, Kate, and bear me witness all That here I kiss her as my sovereign queen.
Where art thou, Death?
Sheathe your dagger.
Strange things I have in head, that will to hand, Which must be acted ere they may be scanned.
You know the law.
Therefore the sadness is without limit.
Through the house give glimmering light, By the dead and drowsy fire.
Tis his fashion.
My husband!
The Fairyland buys not the child of me.
I’ll to the friar to know his remedy.
I now perceive it was not altogether your brother’s evil disposition made him seek his death, but a provoking merit set awork by a reprovable badness in himself.
Oh, that a lady of one man refused Should of another therefore be abused!
No, he’s in Tartar limbo, worse than hell.
If it be so as so ’tis put on me— And that in way of caution—I must tell you, You do not understand yourself so clearly As it behooves my daughter and your honor.
I had rather be a peddler.
He is coming.
O wonderful, wonderful, and most wonderful wonderful, and yet again wonderful, and after that, out of all whooping! 
This is her very guise; and, upon my life, fast asleep.
Eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast—and but twelve persons there!
If you will see it, follow me.
I tell you what you shall do.
Here, wear this jewel for me.
Pray ye, go.
O heavens!
Whither are they vanished?
Let me hear from you.
Tell him there’s a post come from my master with his horn full of good news.
Can he be angry?
When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.
Let the trumpet sound.
Alas, thou hast misconstrued everything!
Do but now promise, Kate, you will endeavor for your French part of such a boy; and for my English moiety take the word of a king and a bachelor.
It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she will not discover it.
The wolves have preyed, and look, the gentle day, Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
Gods and goddesses, All the whole synod of them!
Certain ones, then.
He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
To which we all appeal.
Come between us, good Benvolio.
I am glad on ’t.
Hast thou affections?
And if it stand, as you yourself still do, Within the eye of honor, be assured My purse, my person, my extremest means Lie all unlocked to your occasions.
Such a mad marriage never was before.
The business of this man looks out of him.
I know not where he lodges, and for me to devise a lodging and say he lies here, or he lies there, were to lie in mine own throat.
O villain, villain, smiling, damnèd villain!
They could not, would not do ’t.
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed.
How does Hamlet?
Shall I abide In this dull world, which in thy absence is No better than a sty?
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
Those that do die of it do seldom or never recover. 
I’ll set a bourn how far to be beloved.
Honest Nurse, farewell.
Thou'ld’st have, great Glamis, That which cries, “Thus thou must do,” if thou have it, And that which rather thou dost fear to do, Than wishest should be undone.
Both which, Master Constable— You have.
To serve me well, you all should do me duty
I shall be saved by my husband.
Now will I go to take some privy order To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight, And to give order that no manner of person Have any time recourse unto the princes.
Well, look unto it.
My liege.
Thy eyes are almost set in thy head.
Some that will evermore peep through their eyes And laugh like parrots at a bagpiper, And other of such vinegar aspect That they’ll not show their teeth in way of smile Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable.
When I wore it at your daughter’s marriage?
Peace!
It may be, very like.
Think’st thou I’d make a life of jealousy, To follow still the changes of the moon With fresh suspicions?
Or if it did not, Your first is dead, or ’twere as good he were, As living here and you no use of him.
Amen.
O noble prince, I can discover all The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl.
Ay, but when?
Then show it me.
Surely, a princely testimony, a goodly count, Count Comfect, a sweet gallant, surely!
But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by word of mouth, set upon Aguecheek a notable report of valor, and drive the gentleman (as I know his youth will aptly receive it) into a most hideous opinion of his rage, skill, fury, and impetuosity.
Thou hast a lady far more beautiful Than any woman in this waning age.
I say, there is no darkness but ignorance, in which thou art more puzzled than the Egyptians in their fog.
How canst thou thus for shame, Titania, Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
Here is the cap your Worship did bespeak.
Sister, welcome.
Nay, it is.
Sweet Sir Toby, be patient for tonight.
I call thee by the most modest terms, for I am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil himself with courtesy.
Cast on no water.
And you shall be satisfied.
I think this tale would win my daughter too.
When we have matched our rackets to these balls, We will in France, by God’s grace, play a set Shall strike his father’s crown into the hazard.
Not see him since?
Would he deny his letter, said he?
See thou dissemble not.
Oh, that the slave had forty thousand lives!
Jove, I thank thee!
Exclaim no more against it.
My thanes and kinsmen, Henceforth be earls, the first that ever Scotland In such an honor named.
Urge neither charity nor shame to me.
Come, sir, I pray you, go.
I found you as a morsel cold upon Dead Caesar’s trencher.
This is old Ninny’s tomb.
Sir, speed you.
Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee!
Well, Syracusian, say in brief the cause Why thou dep-artedst from thy native home And for what cause thou camest to Ephesus.
Fiery”?
That’s our offer.
Then must the Jew be merciful.
When I spoke that, I was ill-tempered too.
A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse!
If till the expiration of your month, You will return and sojourn with my sister, Dismissing half your train, come then to me.
Yea, or to paint himself?
If you do free your children from the sword, Your children’s children quits it in your age.
I have been talking with a suitor here, A man that languishes in your displeasure.
For when mine hours Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives Of me for jests; but now I’ll set my teeth And send to darkness all that stop me.
Therefore you must needs play Pyramus.
I’ll pluck thee berries.
Tis certain he hath passed the river Somme.
You minion, you, are these your customers?
I was about to protest I loved you.
I fear he will.
I’ll make her come, I warrant you, presently.
It’s suppertime, my lord.
Why?
But, hold thee, take this garland on thy brow.
He is slain.
Go, girl.
Go, borrow me a crow.
As of a man faithful and honorable.
I could not for my heart deny it him.
Calphurnia here, my wife, stays me at home.
Call thyself “sister,” sweet, for I am thee.
And let him ply his music.
Nay, I’ll ne'er believe a madman till I see his brains.
Ay, if Messala will prefer me to you.
Welcome, dear madam.
It is no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and full of invention.
The son and heir of old Tiberio.
Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion be your tutor.
You know sometimes he walks four hours together Here in the lobby.
Tis he.
But here they come.
I will prove it legitimate, sir, upon the oaths of judgment and reason.
Young men’s love then lies Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
Montjoy.
Where it seems best unto your royal self.
Even or odd, of all days in the year, Come Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Faith, he is posted hence on serious matter.
Master, here’s The gold you sent me for.
Are they good?
Is it honest in deed and word?
My mistress here lies murdered in her bed— Oh, heavens forfend!
It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place, To be producted (as, if I stay, I shall) Against the Moor.
Farewell.
Oh, this false soul of Egypt!
Thou saidst—Oh, it comes o'er my memory, As doth the raven o'er the infectious house, Boding to all—he had my handkerchief.
Fury, Fury!—There, Tyrant, there.
He supped at my house, but I therefore shake not.
If ’twere no other— 'Tis but so, I warrant.
But say, my lord, it were not registered, Methinks the truth should live from age to age, As ’twere retailed to all posterity, Even to the general all-ending day.
Katherine the curst!” A title for a maid of all titles the worst.
 “de hand, de fangres, de nails—” “De nails,” madame.
Excellent!
So should he look That seems to speak things strange.
Art rich?
Thou sing’st sweet music.
Do not you love me?
The English force, so please you.
Most absolute lord, My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee.
Come, sweet Audrey.
So out went the candle and we were left darkling.
I confess it is my shame to be so fond, but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
He shall do this, or else I do recant The pardon that I late pronouncèd here.
Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague?
I’d have thee live, For in my sense ’tis happiness to die.
Amen.
Fetch the will hither, and we shall determine How to cut off some charge in legacies.
There’s other business for thee.
Most high, most mighty, and most puissant Caesar, Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat An humble heart—     I must prevent thee, Cimber.
Who are you?
A most scurvy monster.
What, you look merrily.
I must confess your offer is the best, And, let your father make her the assurance, She is your own; else, you must pardon me.
Be thou assured, good Cassio, I will do All my abilities in thy behalf.
Methinks the ground is even.
The English power is near, led on by Malcolm, His uncle Siward and the good Macduff.
Do you perceive in all this noble company Where most you owe obedience?
What may she not?
They are in the very wrath of love, and they will together.
Well.— Now come, my Ariel!
I am in this commanded to deliver The noble duke of Clarence to your hands.
Men must not walk too late.
From that place I shall no leading need.
I have some business.
This is Signor Antonio.
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet To help me sort such needful ornaments As you think fit to furnish me tomorrow?
Godspeed, fair Helena!
How many cowards whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand wear yet upon their chins The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars, Who, inward searched, have livers white as milk, And these assume but valor’s excrement To render them redoubted.
Thou art like one of those fellows that, when he enters the confines of a tavern, claps me his sword upon the table and says “God send me no need of thee!” and, by the operation of the second cup, draws it on the drawer when indeed there is no need.
My curses on her!
If thou doubt it, thou mayst slide from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but my head and my neck.
And what art thou, thou idol ceremony?
Light is an effect of fire, and fire will burn
My liege, this was my glove; here is the fellow of it.
He dies!
Murder!
Why, doth not every earthly thing Cry shame upon her?
O, cleave, my sides!
Woe, woe for England!
Denmark’s a prison.
Think you of a worse title, and I will fit her to it.
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you.
Know you not, master, to some kind of men Their graces serve them but as enemies?
Oh, ho, monster, we know what belongs to a frippery.—   Put off that gown, Trinculo.
Merciful powers, Restrain in me the cursèd thoughts that nature Gives way to in repose.
But have I not cause to weep?
I stumbled when I saw.
May a man do it?
That is the way to make her scorn you still.
On each side her Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids, With divers-colored fans, whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool, And what they undid did.
But I pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, I beseech you, talk you of young Master Launcelot?
How now, masters?
I’ll stay no longer question.
What concern they?
This is some fellow, Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect A saucy roughness and constrains the garb Quite from his nature.
He is all the mother’s, from the top to toe.
The one of them imports The death of Cassio to be undertook By Roderigo.
What woman’s man?
Good sister, wrong me not nor wrong yourself, To make a bondmaid and a slave of me.
I would she were in heaven, so she could Entreat some power to change this currish Jew.
Sir, by your patience
We will have more of this tomorrow.
Weigh it but with the grossness of this age, You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
O, let me think on Hastings and be gone To Brecknock, while my fearful head is on!
To business that we love we rise betimes And go to ’t with delight.
That by proscription and bills of outlawry, Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus Have put to death an hundred senators.
Ay, madam.
He hath made me a Christian.
Or rather, do I not in plainest truth Tell you I do not, nor I cannot, love you?
Are you there, wife?
But there is, sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for ’t.
And hath challenged thee?
It is his hand, my lord, but I hope his heart is not in the contents.
Let them affright thee.
Do you think I meant country matters?
So they do nothing, ’tis a venial slip.
I have known when he would have walked ten mile afoot to see a good armor, and now will he lie ten nights awake carving the fashion of a new doublet.
Go to, say you nothing.
How old art thou?
I’ll have my bond, and therefore speak no more.
Adieu!
No?
It must be  Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver— Give me leave.
She is our capital demand, comprised Within the forerank of our articles.
Nay, good lieutenant!
Let our officers Have notice what we purpose.
Good Enobarbus, ’tis a worthy deed, And shall become you well, to entreat your captain To soft and gentle speech.
The sooner, sweet, for you.
I would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.
What he hath lost, noble Macbeth hath won.
Ride you this afternoon?
Ay, good fool.
But where’s the money?
No more but so?
What handkerchief?
That high All-seer which I dallied with Hath turned my feignèd prayer on my head And given in earnest what I begged in jest.
Why, by making him uncapable of Othello’s place
Pray, give me that.
I, sir, am Dromio.
But, gentle heavens, Cut short all intermission.
Will it never be morning?
I will give you the minstrel.
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
I have said.
Would you praise Caesar, say “Caesar.” Go no further.
The elements be kind to thee and make Thy spirits all of comfort!
I must be laughed at If or for nothing or a little, I Should say myself offended, and with you Chiefly i’ th’ world; more laughed at, that I should Once name you derogately, when to sound your name It not concerned me.
The gods confound thee!
A blank, my lord.
All lost!
Why do you stay so long, my lords of France?
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven, Having some business, do entreat her eyes To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
Here at your service.
A noble prisoner!
At your noble pleasure.
Shylock, do you hear?
And he is a very paramour for a sweet voice.
But if you know not this my manners tell me We have your wrong rebuke.
You all do know this mantle.
Why, the hot-blooded France that dowerless took Our youngest born—I could as well be brought To knee his throne, and, squirelike, pension beg To keep base life afoot.
Sebastian are you?
I’ll take my leave.
You have it full, Benedick.
Eternity was in our lips and eyes, Bliss in our brows’ bent, none our parts so poor But was a race of heaven.
Let us see.
Hark!
She hath betrayed me and shall die the death.
All comfort that the dark night can afford Be to thy person, noble father-in-law.
I cannot love him.
Know, Claudio, to thy head, Thou hast so wronged mine innocent child and me That I am forced to lay my reverence by, And with gray hairs and bruise of many days Do challenge thee to trial of a man.
Tell me where it is.
Dost thou love pictures?
For mine own good, All causes shall give way.
Lucius!
A plague o' both your houses!
Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
Read the will!
Borachio.
By and by.
You are too much mistaken in this king.
Harp not on that string, madam; that is past.
Sit, sir.
Oh, that I were a glove upon that hand That I might touch that cheek!
And not a jot of “Tranio” in your mouth.
Nurse, where’s my daughter?
What need you five and twenty, ten, or five To follow in a house where twice so many Have a command to tend you?
This island’s mine, by Sycorax my mother, Which thou takest from me.
What is thy news then?
What, is he dead?
Come.
Excellent.
Truly, I have him, but I would not be the party that should desire you to touch him, for his biting is immortal.
Show me, my women, like a queen.
There’s hell, there’s darkness, there’s the sulfurous pit— burning, scalding, stench, consumption!
It is so too.
Murder!
Tell me, that I may sack The hateful mansion. 
He’s dead.
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I warrant, a virtuous— Where is your mother?
Sola!
But take a taste of my finding him, and relish it with good observance.
Let her know ’t.—   And he will fill thy wishes to the brim With principalities.
Why, thou silly gentleman!
Tis hot, it smokes.
Nay, we must think men are not gods, Nor of them look for such observances As fit the bridal.
If you say, I hope you will not kill me.
The watchdogs bark.
Tis he that sends us to destroy you here.
His soldiership Is twice the other twain.
Besides, there is no king, be his cause never so spotless, if it come to the arbitrament of swords, can try it out with all unspotted soldiers.
And the hour, I think, is come To give him hearing.
Oh, in this love, you love your child so ill That you run mad, seeing that she is well.
Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you.
Come, Friar Francis, be brief, only to the plain form of marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards.
It is too true an evil.
Who am I, sir?
You are welcome, masters, welcome, all!—I am glad to see thee well.—Welcome, good friends.—O old friend?
See, it stalks away.
I heard it not.
Is not that he?
Give me, give me!
On me, whose all not equals Edward’s moiety?
Have you got leave to go to shrift today?
Marry, I fare well, For here is cheer enough.
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
There’s rosemary, that’s for remembrance.
What, are you answered yet?
Tis time to part.
Nay, but Beatrice— Sweet Hero, she is wronged, she is slandered, she is undone.
Why, anything.
True, my lord.
She did indeed.
Is Cassius near?
Give me a cup of wine.
And I do know by this they stay for me In Pompey’s porch.
It is my duty, sir.
This is the day which, in King Edward’s time, I wished might fall on me when I was found False to his children and his wife’s allies.
More company!
And so do I.
At land, thou know’st How much we do o’ercount thee.
It did bass my trespass.
Go and say We purpose her no shame.
Give him this letter.
Only I here importune death awhile, until Of many thousand kisses the poor last I lay upon thy lips.
Beyond imagination is the wrong That she this day hath shameless thrown on me.
 he hurt me, and that’s that.
How fares your grace?
Good night then, Casca.
Alas, sir, it is worse for me than so, For I have bills for money by exchange From Florence, and must here deliver them.
Feed and regard him not.
I pray you stand good father to me now.
But tell us, do you hear whether Antonio have had any loss at sea or no? 
Now am I dead.
Obey thy parents, keep thy word’s justice, swear not, commit not with man’s sworn spouse, set not thy sweet heart on proud array.
Love looks not with the eyes but with the mind.
I’ll teach you how to flow.
I perceive these lords At this encounter do so much admire That they devour their reason and scarce think Their eyes do offices of truth, their words Are natural breath.—But howsoev'r you have Been justled from your senses, know for certain That I am Prospero and that very duke Which was thrust forth of Milan, who most strangely Upon this shore where you were wracked, was landed, To be the lord on ’t.
You would lift the moon out of her sphere if she would continue in it five weeks without changing.
You will have Gremio to keep you fair.
We will have such a prologue, and it shall be written in eight and six.
Be it so, Lysander.
O sweet mistress, speak!
Shall I know your answer?
A most high miracle!
Where lies your text?
Besides, Antonio certified the Duke They were not with Bassanio in his ship.
Take you assurance of her cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum.
Nothing certainer.
Weeping and wailing over Tybalt’s corse.
Ay, indeed!
Go, Pindarus, get higher on that hill.
Therefore with frank and with uncurbèd plainness Tell us the Dauphin’s mind.
The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace.
Why, therefore fire, for I have caught extreme cold.
I wish it might, for now I am your fool.
Well, sir, then ’twill be dry.
Sit, Jessica.
You say not right, old man.
I know no answer.
Alas, I sent you money to redeem you By Dromio here, who came in haste for it.
Farewell.
Give me another horse!
This weaves itself perforce into my business.
It seldom visits sorrow.
Here comes the fool, i' faith.
That shows thou art unconfirmed.
Pray you, sit down, For now we sit to chat as well as eat.
A likely piece of work, that you should find it in your chamber, and not know who left it there!
Can you deny all this?
I hope they will not come upon us now.
Ay, and I’ll give them him without a fee.
But by and by comes back to Romeo, Who had but newly entertained revenge, And to ’t they go like lightning, for ere I Could draw to part them was stout Tybalt slain.
I will do so.
But though my cates be mean, take them in good part.
Silence!
By th' way we met My wife, her sister, and a rabble more Of vile confederates.
Why, I pray you, is not “pig” great?
Hark!
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
I partly feel thee.
Nay, I’ll conjure too!
Ay, and wisely.
And thou, all-shaking thunder, Smite flat the thick rotundity o' th' world, Crack nature’s molds, all germens spill at once That make ingrateful man!
Come in, tailor.
Oh, this is it that makes your servants droop!
Truly, madam, he holds Beelzebub at the staves' end as well as a man in his case may do.
Nay, come again, Good Kate.
Young son, it argues a distempered head So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed.
I think it freely, and betimes in the morning I will beseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me.
So let him land, And solemnly see him set on to London.
See” ’t shalt thou never.—Fellows, hold the chair.— Upon these eyes of thine I’ll set my foot.
My niece Plantagenet Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester?
Why, go to then.
Come, go along.
The other did not so.
Stand thee close, then, under this penthouse, for it drizzles rain, and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.
Ay.
Be happy.
Orsino, this is that Antonio That took the  And this is he that did the  When your young nephew Titus lost his leg.
You have done well, That men must lay their murders on your neck.
No, my lord, unless I might have another for working days.
Let me love him for that, and do you love him because I do.
Shall, Antipholus, Even in the spring of love thy love-springs rot?
I am glad he’s come, howsoe'er he comes.
Commend me to my kind lord.
When I told you My state was nothing, I should then have told you That I was worse than nothing, for indeed I have engaged myself to a dear friend, Engaged my friend to his mere enemy To feed my means.
If I quench thee, thou flaming minister, I can again thy former light restore Should I repent me.
But be thou armed for some unhappy words.
Let him come, and kindly.
O, do not swear, my lord of Buckingham!
I never got him.— Hark, the duke’s trumpets.
He smiled and said “The better for our purpose.” He was in the right, and so indeed it is.
Provoke not battle Till we have done at sea.
I will be brief, for my short date of breath Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
Caesar, beware of Brutus.
God grant him health.
How, in stripping it, You more invest it!
He shall in time be ready.
Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed, The air is delicate.
No, my dearest love, I would not for the world.
Know me for Brutus!
A sister I bequeath you whom no brother Did ever love so dearly.
What dost thou mean?
Once more remove, good friends.
But mark, poor knight, What dreadful dole is here!
Most gracious majesty!
I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
I’ll make division of my present with you.
Sweet, so would I.
I meddle with no tradesman’s matters nor women’s matters, but withal I am indeed, sir, a surgeon to old shoes.
Some good I mean to do Despite of mine own nature.
Would I could answer This comfort with the like.
You are welcome, sir.
Is not this true?
Gentlewoman, my lady calls.
Alas, poor hurt fowl, now will he creep into sedges.
Oh, I could weep My spirit from mine eyes.
On, on, you noblest English, Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof, Fathers that, like so many Alexanders, Have in these parts from morn till even fought And sheathed their swords for lack of argument.
Oh, I were damned beneath all depth in hell, But that I did proceed upon just grounds To this extremity.
Bid him levy straight The greatest strength and power that he can make And meet me suddenly at Salisbury.
If not to answer, you might haply think Tongue-tied ambition, not replying, yielded To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty, Which fondly you would here impose on me.
How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony’s nephew?
I will be satisfied.
Not so, I do beseech your Majesty.
I assure my good liege, I hold my duty as I hold my soul, Both to my God and to my gracious king.
Tis the infirmity of his age.
How shall I answer you?
Swum ashore, man, like a duck.
How do you, madam?
O most courageous day!
My lord, I have remembrances of yours That I have longèd long to redeliver.
It shall be seven ere I go to horse.
I not doubt He came alive to land.
Wrong not her birth.
Come, go with me apart.
Put up your sword.
Ratcliffe, my lord, ’tis I.
Stay, give me drink.—Hamlet, this pearl is thine.
I do not like the Tower, of any place.— Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?
Meet presently at the palace.
Do so, good Messala.
Room for Antony, most noble Antony!
Call you this railing?
To feed were best at home; From thence, the sauce to meat is ceremony; Meeting were bare without it.
Primo, secundo, tertio is a good play, and the old saying is, the third pays for all.
Hum!
Of fighting men they have full threescore thousand.
Ay, very well, my lord.
The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them, But where, to say the truth, I do not know.
There’s meaning in thy snores.
Come on.
Amen.
Taste your legs, sir.
They would have me as familiar with men’s pockets as their gloves or their handkerchers, which makes much against my manhood, if I should take from another’s pocket to put into mine, for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs.
This sword but shown to Caesar, with this tidings, Shall enter me with him.
If you offend him, I for him defy you.
She, dying, as it must so be maintained, Upon the instant that she was accused, Shall be lamented, pitied and excused Of every hearer.
O dear Phoebe, If ever—as that ever may be near— You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy, Then shall you know the wounds invisible That love’s keen arrows make.
Wherefore weep you?
But till I come again, No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay, No rest be interposer ’twixt us twain.
If she sustain him and his hundred knights When I have showed th' unfitness— Here, madam.
Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old gentleman’s saying.
Brief, I recovered him, bound up his wound, And after some small space, being strong at heart,
Do you like me, Kate?
We are undone, lady, we are undone!
Marry, I saw your niece do more favors to the Count’s servingman than ever she bestowed upon me.
Peace, peace!
We would be resolved, Before we hear him, of some things of weight That task our thoughts concerning us and France.
The castle’s gently rendered.
Gentlemen both, you will mistake each other.
Ay, sir.
Buy food, and get thyself in flesh.— Come, cordial and not poison, go with me To Juliet’s grave, for there must I use thee.
He doth nothing but frown, as who should say, “An you will not have me, choose.” He hears merry tales and smiles not.
Why, sir, I brought you word an hour since that the bark  The fellow is distract, and so am I, And here we wander in illusions.
What, must our mouths be cold?
A lioness hath whelpèd in the streets, And graves have yawned and yielded up their dead.
And, gentle friends, Let’s kill him boldly but not wrathfully.
By this marriage, All little jealousies, which now seem great, And all great fears, which now import their dangers, Would then be nothing.
Farewell!—God knows when we shall meet again.
For several virtues Have I liked several women.
I shall have glory by this losing day More than Octavius and Mark Antony By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
This will I also wear in my cap.
My invocation Is fair and honest.
I speak but in the figures and comparisons of it.
Why, sir, cobble you.
Now art thou my lieutenant.
Who calls?
If he may be conveniently delivered, I would he were, for I am now so far in offense with my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot.
To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man picked out of ten thousand.
This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues, Was once thought honest.
Well, God-'a'-mercy.
I delight in masques and revels sometimes altogether.
I’ll claim that promise at your Grace’s hands.
I prithee, vent thy folly somewhere else.
Hail.
I go.
All the pictures fairest lined Are but black to Rosalind.
What dost thou know me for?
He is my prisoner.
Are my deserts no better?
Tis her command.
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.— Now, afore God, this reverend holy friar!
Well.
Thou never shalt hear herald anymore.
Come, instance.
Where is Malvolio?
It weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash Is added to her wounds.
I hear my father coming.
I think he be angry indeed.
But, in good sooth, are you he that hangs the verses on the trees wherein Rosalind is so admired?
It may be worth thy pains, for I can sing And speak to him in many sorts of music That will allow me very worth his service.
It was he That made the overture of thy treasons to us, Who is too good to pity thee.
What a caterwauling do you keep here!
I know they are in Rome together Looking for Antony.
Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers.— Helen, I love thee.
Great and increasing.
I may not breathe my censure What he might be.
Why then, he is alive.
Do not answer me.
Up so.
He had a fever when he was in Spain, And when the fit was on him, I did mark How he did shake.
If every one knows us, and we know none, 'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack, and be gone.
Do not say “banishment.” Hence from Verona art thou banishèd.
I will, sir.
O, let him pass.
Bear it coldly but till midnight and let the issue show itself.
And I beseech you instantly to visit My too much changèd son.
 it’s like a councilor who makes me feel what I’m really made of.” Adversity can have its benefits—like the ugly, poisonous  I wouldn’t change my situation for anything.
How hath your lordship brooked imprisonment?
Tomorrow night when Phoebe doth behold Her silver visage in the watery glass, Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass (A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal), Through Athens' gates have we devised to steal.
Give me mine angle.
This was well done, my bird.
What if my house be troubled with a rat And I be pleased to give ten thousand ducats To have it baned?
Madam my interpreter, what says she?
Nay, when I have a suit Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed It shall be full of poise and difficult weight And fearful to be granted.
That is my rest; that is the rendezvous of it.
Thou hast killed my child.
It sorts well with your fierceness.
Away!
I am afraid this great lubber, the world, will prove a cockney.
The whole butt, man.
Sir Toby will be sworn that I am no fox, but he will not pass his word for two pence that you are no fool.
He was the wretched’st thing when he was young, So long a-growing and so leisurely, That if this rule were true, he should be gracious.
Have mind upon your health, tempt me no further.
Though this island seem to be desert—  
Anything that’s mended is but patched.
Speak, if you can
Your worship was wont to tell me that I could do nothing without bidding.
Methought the billows spoke and told me of it, The winds did sing it to me, and the thunder, That deep and dreadful organ pipe, pronounced The name of Prosper.
Sir Toby Belch!
Thou may ’st revenge —O slave!
It is not well done, mark you now, to take the tales out of my mouth ere it is made and finished.
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
I tell thee, I, that thou hast marred her gown.
Fare thee well.
It waves me still.
Boatswain!
Now, I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad.
All, all.
O, touch me not.
There lies that Tybalt.
I go, my lord.
Go charge my goblins that they grind their joints With dry convulsions, shorten up their sinews With agèd cramps, and more pinch-spotted make them Than pard or cat o' mountain.
I should sin To think but nobly of my grandmother.
God bless me from a challenge!
Had I not Four or five women once that tended me?
Then thou art damned.
I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
Alas, then she is drowned.
This will put them out of fear.
How vexest thou this man!
So to them both.
I know him not.
A cup, closed in my true love’s hand?
What, in the midst of the street?
Not I, I must be found.
Show his eyes and grieve his heart.
Petruchio, go thy ways; the field is won.
Have I, my lord?
Cry the man mercy, love him, take his offer.
You must leave this.
Help me, help me!
Away with the dotard!
I fear thee not.
Come on!
I know what reason I have to think so
Much will be seen in that.
Why thou, loss upon loss!
He prays you to save his life.
I think thou art an ass.
Ay, or any show that you will show him.
Nay, go not back.
Dolabella!
And yet it is danger To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
When Jacob grazed his uncle Laban’s sheep— This Jacob from our holy Abram was, As his wise mother wrought in his behalf, The third possessor, ay, he was the third— And what of him?
Will you be married, motley?
My reputation, Iago, my reputation!
Go hence with diligence.
Alack the day!
Do you know me, sir?
but you see my finger Hath not the ring upon it.
It doth appear you are a worthy judge.
I have.
Infect her beauty, You fen-sucked fogs drawn by the powerful sun, To fall and blister!
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
You are naught, you are naught.
Who is it that can tell me who I am?
Ay, my good lord.
Whither is he going?
You have been nobly borne. 
Help!
Stand!
Welcome.
O these deliberate fools!
Unarm, Eros.
Thou speak’st aright.
When comes such another?
God mark thee to his grace!
A very weak monster.
 I am glad your English isn’t better.
Well, do your discretion.
On Tuesday noon, or night, or Wednesday morn.
I am the duke That loved your father.
What rein can hold licentious wickedness When down the hill he holds his fierce career?
Oh, I am undone, I am undone!
I will praise any man that will praise me, though it cannot be denied what I have done by land.
I pray you, let me see it.
In both my eyes he doubly sees himself— In each eye, one.
O Setebos, these be brave spirits indeed!
For not alone The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches, Do strongly speak to us, but the letters too Of many our contriving friends in Rome Petition us at home.
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure Thou art uproused by some distemperature.
So says the Prince and my new-trothèd lord.
I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard, Now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke, Fulfill your pleasure.
Why call you me “love”?
The noble Brutus is ascended.
I hope my noble lord esteems me honest.
Ah, that’s a foul fault.
The king his master needs must take it ill, That he, so slightly valued in his messenger, Should have him thus restrained.
Signor Benedick!
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
Would I were assured Of my condition.
He would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse.
That did I never hear.
And when the cross blue lightning seemed to open The breast of heaven, I did present myself Even in the aim and very flash of it.
Ay, there it is.
I swear—      By nothing, for this is no oath.
What, are you busy, ho?
If you’ll come to supper tonight, you may.
But let them measure us by what they will.
I am peppered, I warrant, for this world.
Tis not for gravity to play at cherry-pit with Satan.
And look, where Publius is come to fetch me.
God grant we never may have need of you.
My father is not dead, for all your saying.
One ever near thee.
To suckle fools and chronicle small beer.
Hail, King of Scotland!
I will none.
Nay, and most like.
We’ll keep no great ado, a friend or two.
I will hear Brutus speak.
How if I answer “No”?
Tarry, sweet soul, for mine; then fly abreast, As in this glorious and well-foughten field We kept together in our chivalry.” Upon these words I came and cheered him up.
Then, prophetlike, They hailed him father to a line of kings.
The best news is that we have safely found Our king and company.
Farewell, father.
How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio’s wife?
I prithee, who doth he trot withal?
Oh, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
Tell me, heavenly bow, If Venus or her son, as thou dost know, Do now attend the queen?
Come, we’ll have him in a dark room and bound.
What, my lord?
If you pardon, we will mend.
Give me your neaf, Monsieur Mustardseed.
What you have said I will consider, what you have to say I will with patience hear, and find a time Both meet to hear and answer such high things.
And did you leave him in this contemplation?
And are not you my husband?
A whole one, I.
Him and his worth and our great need of him You have right well conceited.
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Come, come away.
O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
My father’s death—      Thy life hath it dishonored.
A dry jest, sir.
Had I plantation of this isle, my lord— He’d sow ’t with nettle seed.
I’ll go another way to work with him.
Do that good mischief which may make this island Thine own for ever, and I, thy Caliban, For aye thy foot-licker.
O sweet Portia, Here are a few of the unpleasant’st words That ever blotted paper.
And must she die for this?
Oh, but she is wise.
But are they, Ariel, safe?
Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung With feigning voice verses of feigning love, And stol'n the impression of her fantasy With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gauds, conceits, Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats—messengers Of strong prevailment in unhardened youth.
Come, Let’s have one other gaudy night.
I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me.
With drinking healths to my niece.
Uncouple in the western valley.
But I will punish home.
I’ll make you amends next, to give you nothing for something.
To cry “Amen” to that, thus we appear.
More than pertains to feats of broils and battle, And therefore little shall I grace my cause In speaking for myself.
Then is he more beholding to you than I.
And this cuff was but to knock at your ear and beseech list'ning.
Every man look o'er his part.
A devil, a born devil on whose nature Nurture can never stick, on whom my pains, Humanely taken, all, all lost, quite lost.
I prithee, be gone.                          
I will, my lord.
Graces will appear, and there’s an end.
Betrayed I am.
What dost thou with thy best apparel on?
Why grow the branches when the root is gone?
Nay, I’ll go with thee, cheek by jowl.
Mark, I say, instantly, and carry it so As I have set it down.
Spend this for me.
I’ll bear thy blame And take thy office from thee, on my peril.
Maybe he is not well.
Tis more, ’tis more.
Then walk we forth, even to the marketplace, And waving our red weapons o'er our heads Let’s all cry, “Peace, freedom, and liberty!” Stoop, then, and wash.
Some good man bear him carefully from hence.
William, sir.
Gracious Olivia— What do you say, Cesario?—Good my lord— My lord would speak.
Adieu, Lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
I prithee, call him back.
Marry, now I can tell.
I’ll not answer that But say it is my humour.
Hoo!
What’s your pleasure, sir?
These injuries the king now bears will be revenged home.
You are in the right.
He was my friend, faithful and just to me.
A crow without feather?
She doth stray about By holy crosses, where she kneels and prays For happy wedlock hours.
Your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul.
Thou art a soul in bliss, but I am bound Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears Do scald like molten lead.
And yet for aught I see, they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing.
As ’tis said, the bastard son of Gloucester.
That she was false to wedlock?
A many of our bodies shall no doubt Find native graves, upon the which, I trust, Shall witness live in brass of this day’s work.
Long love doth so.
You shall have letters from me to my son In your behalf, to meet you on the way.
What sayst thou to me now?
My mistress and her sister stays for you.
What’s her name?
Tis brief, my lord.
O Goneril, You are not worth the dust which the rude wind Blows in your face.
Downy windows, close,
Do, good William.
My lord?
Swear by her foot, that she may tread out the oath.
I find it still, when I have leave to sleep.
 overly ambitious, jealous of other people’s good qualities, and a traitor against me, his own blood brother.
The fee simple?
It is the devil.
I pray you watch about Signior Leonato’s door, for the wedding being there tomorrow, there is a great coil tonight.
Tell him, so please him come unto this place, He shall be satisfied and, by my honor, Depart untouched.
Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep.
Do it quickly.
Security gives way to conspiracy.
Is he dead?
You know no Centaur?
Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.
I’ll fetch my sister to get her goodwill.
Well then, now Have you considered of my speeches?
Many good morrows to my noble lord.
No, trust me, sir, nor I. I am sure thou dost.
Come, let us to the banquet.
And out of doubt you do me now more wrong In making question of my uttermost Than if you had made waste of all I have.
Give you good night.
Very well, my lord.
Very foul.
Well then, go you into hell?
Faith, sir, you need not fear.
Tell him myself, the mayor, and aldermen, No less importing than our general good, In deep designs, and matters of great moment Are come to have some conference with his grace.
He attendeth here hard by To know your answer whether you’ll admit him.
My husband!
Alack, why thus?
I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
What needs more words?
Spirits, which by mine art I have from their confines called to enact My present fancies.
But it is certain I am loved of all ladies, only you excepted.
Is not your lord honorable without marriage?
Your vessels and your spells provide, Your charms and everything beside.
For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
At mine own house, good lady.
Space enough Have I in such a prison.          
Fall to ’t yarely, or we run ourselves aground.
Were such things here as we do speak about?
Who lies i' th' second chamber?
 Hugh Capet, who usurped the crown from Charles the duke of Lorraine—sole male heir in a direct line from Charles the Great—passed himself off as heir to Lady Lingare, daughter of Charlemagne, who was the son of Lewis the Emperor (who was the son of Charles the Great), in order to give his claim to the throne more validity (though, in fact, the claim was completely false and worthless).
I was born free as Caesar.
Why then, resolve me whether you will or no.
Sure, ’tis not so.
They shouted thrice.
Who stocked my servant?
Fie, fie, ’tis lewd and filthy!
Why, get you gone!
Is it come to this?
Let not that doctor e'er come near my house!
So the fool follows after.
It is written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor with his last, the fisher with his pencil and the painter with his nets.
We cannot all be masters, nor all masters Cannot be truly followed.
So doth the greater glory dim the less.
Give me thy hand, Messala.
What shall I swear by?
I know my lady will strike him.
And I another So weary with disasters, tugged with fortune, That I would set my life on any chance, To mend it or be rid on ’t.
Give them way till he take leave, and presently after him.
Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder.
Stay here.
Brother John Bates, is not that the morning which breaks yonder?
And if tomorrow Our navy thrive, I have an absolute hope Our landmen will stand up.
Do you know me, Father?
Gentle lady, When I did first impart my love to you, I freely told you, all the wealth I had Ran in my veins.
She soon shall know of us, by some of ours, How honorable and how kindly we Determine for her, for Caesar cannot live To be ungentle.
Never—O fault!—revealed myself unto him Until some half-hour past, when I was armed.
For first was he contract to Lady Lucy— Your mother lives a witness to that vow— And afterward by substitute betrothed To Bona, sister to the king of France.
Madam, with much ado.
The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood Is stopped; the very source of it is stopped.
Fly, therefore, noble Cassius, fly far off.
Art thou his friend?
For this slave, If there be any cunning cruelty That can torment him much and hold him long, It shall be his.
Why rail’st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
Your cause of sorrow Must not be measured by his worth, for then It hath no end.
Ay, my lord, an ’t please you.
But lend it rather to thine enemy, Who, if he break, thou mayst with better face Exact the penalty.
You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams.
Tis strange, strange.
Why, sir, a carpenter.
I am one, my liege, Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world Have so incensed that I am reckless what I do to spite the world.
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices Make instruments to plague us.
What think you of the Scottish lord, his neighbor?
Most royal sir, Fleance is ’scaped.
But, hark thee, Charmian.
But come, my lord, let’s away.
A daughter?
Will you give her o'er?
No slander.
That’s more than we know.
Grief of my son’s exile hath stopped her breath.
And for that I promised you, I’ll be as good as my word.
O most pernicious woman!
Vent my folly?
It was my duty, sir.
It shines everywhere.
Be warned by me, then
Is the single man therefore blessed?
Behind the abbey wall Within this hour my man shall be with thee And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair, Which to the high top-gallant of my joy Must be my convoy in the secret night.
And what say’st thou then to my love?
If Echo were as fleet, I would esteem him worth a dozen such.
This is some minx’s token, and I must take out the work?
Well, well, well.
The villain Jew with outcries raised the Duke, Who went with him to search Bassanio’s ship.
No, Antony, take the lot.
So perhaps did yours.
Why should he not?
He says for Brutus' sake He finds himself beholding to us all.
As much unto my good Lord Chamberlain.
Ah, but I think him better than I say, And yet would herein others' eyes were worse.
I told him that your father was at Venice, And that you looked for him this day in Padua.
Stay and speak!
Shall we part, sweet girl?
Thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.
My father compounded with my mother under the dragon’s tail and my nativity was under Ursa Major, so that it follows I am rough and lecherous.
We should have else desired your good advice— Which still hath been both grave and prosperous— In this day’s council, but we’ll take tomorrow.
You embrace your charge too willingly.
And, as the jest did glance away from me, 'Tis ten to one it maimed you two outright.
Why do you dress me In borrowed robes?
I now repent I told the pursuivant, As too triumphing, how mine enemies Today at Pomfret bloodily were butchered, And I myself secure in grace and favor.
Tis not so sweet now as it was before.
I’ll go farther off.
And false.
How many goodly creatures are there here!
That’s a fault that water will mend.
An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man should buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
Therefore stay yet.
And this same progeny of evils comes From our debate, from our dissension.
The gods forbid!
Let every soldier hew him down a bough And bear ’t before him.
Mass, and my elbow itched, I thought there would a scab follow.
An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.    
Say “a day” without the “ever.” No, no, Orlando, men are April when they woo, December when they wed. Maids are May when they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives.
If they speak but truth of her, These hands shall tear her; if they wrong her honor, The proudest of them shall well hear of it.
Leave me, I pray, a little.
Marry, sir, with needle and thread.
Macbeth shall never vanquished be until Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill Shall come against him.
Whate’er becomes of me, This is a soldier’s kiss.
Ah keeper, keeper, I have done those things, That now give evidence against my soul, For Edward’s sake, and see how he requites me.— O God, if my deep prayers cannot appease thee, But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds, Yet execute thy wrath in me alone!
Poor Tom shall lead thee.
Where souls do couch on flowers, we’ll hand in hand, And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze.
Nay, pray be covered.
Only I yield to die.
Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit, Which, like a usurer, abound’st in all And usest none in that true use indeed Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit.
Then Edgar was abused.
Nay, I hope.
I do require them of you, so to use them As we shall find their merits and our safety May equally determine.
I’ll bring you to him straight.
I am debating of my present store, And by the near guess of my memory I cannot instantly raise up the gross Of full three thousand ducats.
And they have been grand-jurymen since before Noah was a sailor.
She cannot be so much without true judgment, Having so swift and excellent a wit As she is prized to have, as to refuse So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius.
Do they grow rusty?
And thane of Cawdor too
All men I hope live so.
It was my turquoise.
I do not think ’t.
I have no long spoon.
What are thy comings in?
Were you made the messenger?
Hold off your hands.
Press near and second him.
I come to fetch you to the senate house.
Dost thou call me fool, boy?
He hath, my lord, but be you well assured No more than he’ll unswear.
Now, my Titania, wake you, my sweet queen.
Tis midnight.
But were I Brutus, And Brutus Antony, there were an Antony Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue In every wound of Caesar that should move The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
Art thou a man?
Sblood, an arrant traitor as any ’s in the universal world, or in France, or in England!
But now I see our lances are but straws, Our strength as weak, our weakness past compare, That seeming to be most which we indeed least are.
Can any of your neighbors tell, Kate?
Not so, sir, I do care for something.
Give me thy torch, boy.
Where the devil should this Romeo be?
Have patience, madam.
Hold, there’s half my coffer.
I could munch your good dry oats.
A play there is, my lord, some ten words long, Which is as brief as I have known a play.
By Jupiter, I swear “No.” By Juno, I swear “Ay.”    They durst not do ’t.
I did say so When first I raised the tempest.
But since he is better we have therefore odds.
The nature of bad news infects the teller.
These many, then, shall die.
If thus thou vanishest, thou tell’st the world It is not worth leave-taking.
He therefore sends you, meeter for your spirit, This tun of treasure, and, in lieu of this, Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim Hear no more of you.
Go, go, good countrymen, and for this fault, Assemble all the poor men of your sort, Draw them to Tiber banks, and weep your tears Into the channel till the lowest stream Do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
I little thought You would have followed.
Stay not to answer me, but get thee gone.
This were kindness.
A gentleman.
I can no more.
Faith, we met and found the quarrel was upon the seventh cause.
And for Cassio, let me be his undertaker.
Good sir, draw near to me.
O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous.
Think on me, That am with Phoebus’ amorous pinches black And wrinkled deep in time.
O cruel!
O me!
and but I be deceived, Signior Baptista may remember me, Near twenty years ago, in Genoa, Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus.
Tis known before.
Of lusty earls
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
O woeful day!
Caesar, ’tis strucken eight.
If you come slack of former services, You shall do well.
This admiration, sir, is much o' th' savor Of other your new pranks.
That island of England breeds very valiant creatures.
Let her hang me.
Hie you, Messala, And I will seek for Pindarus the while.
Would thou and those thy scars had once prevailed To make me fight at land!
Would I were in an alehouse in London!
What said he when he came unto himself?
And is not the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of a man?
Be not you ashamed to show, he’ll not shame to tell you what it means.
Where have I been?
Taurus!
It is shaped, sir, like itself, and it is as broad as it hath breadth.
Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress’s brother.
Ha, ha!
She, dying, gave it me And bid me, when my fate would have me wived, To give it her.
And you all know, security Is mortals' chiefest enemy.
Had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves, than that Caesar were dead, to live all free men?
A halter gratis, nothing else, for God’s sake.
Well, sir, I’ll bring you to our master Lear And leave you to attend him.
thee aloud “England is thine, Ireland is thine, France is thine, and Harry Plantagenet is thine,” who, though I speak it before his face, if he be not fellow with the best king, thou shalt find the best king of good fellows.
Here comes one.
What friend?
How now, Horatio?
Tis like a demi-cannon.
While we reason here, A royal battle might be won and lost.
Woo’t fight?
I saw ’t not, thought it not, it harmed not me.
Come hither, gentlemen, And lay your hands again upon my sword.
And now forward with thy tale.
Then certifies your Lordship that this night He dreamt the boar had razèd his helm Besides, he says there are two councils kept, And that may be determined at the one Which may make you and him to rue at th' other.
The greater therefore should our courage be.
Fie, fie, fie, pah, pah!—Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination.
If you like upon report The soil, the profit, and this kind of life, I will your very faithful feeder be And buy it with your gold right suddenly.
Nay, if our wits run the wild-goose chase, I am done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five.
Sir, he dined with her there, at the Porpentine.
The spirit torments me.
Myself, he, and my sister Today did dine together.
Virtue?
I am not such an ass, but I can keep my hand dry.
Prithee, Emilia, Go know of Cassio where he supped tonight.—  
He hath been a courtier, he swears.
Help, ho!
He fell down in the marketplace, and foamed at mouth, and was speechless.
A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross.
Thanks, good my countryman.
Sit thee down, Clitus.
Sirs, let ’t alone.
Alas, what danger will it be to us, Maids as we are, to travel forth so far?
And be assured you’ll find a difference, As we his subjects have in wonder found, Between the promise of his greener days And these he masters now.
My good lords both, with all the heed I can.
A most poor credulous monster.—Well drawn, monster, in good sooth!
Most sweet lady— A comfortable doctrine, and much may be said of it.
Be not afraid, though you do see me weaponed.
Nay, we will all of us be there to fetch him.
O, how this mother swells up toward my heart!
Save thee, Curan.
I will only be bold with Benedick for his company, for from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot he is all mirth.
What thou seest when thou dost wake, Do it for thy true love take.
You look pale, and gaze, And put on fear, and cast yourself in wonder To see the strange impatience of the heavens.
Bellario greets your grace.    
Thou shouldst know There were a heart in Egypt.
From this time forth I never will speak word.
Behold the threaden sails, Borne with th' invisible and creeping wind, Draw the huge bottoms through the furrowed sea, Breasting the lofty surge.
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favor, Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood, A violet in the youth of primy nature, Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting, The perfume and suppliance of a minute.
By God’s sonties, ’twill be a hard way to hit.
How many months Do you desire?
Not now.
Benedicite.
But what will you be called?
Never king of England Had nobles richer, and more loyal subjects, Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England And lie pavilioned in the fields of France.
And yon tall anchoring bark,
 I can either make her marry Demetrius—or have her killed.
He faints!—My lord, my lord!
Or any of your faction?
Have at thee, coward!
If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I’d have thee beaten for being old before thy time.
Thou didst it excellent.
She says enough, yet she’s a simple bawd That cannot say as much.
Call not your stocks for me.
Shall I believe That unsubstantial death is amorous, And that the lean abhorrèd monster keeps Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
Here.
He had a kind of taste.—Well, my conscience says, “Launcelot, budge not.” “Budge!” says the fiend.
And as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with thee to disgrace her.
Not that I know.
Is it within reason and compass?
Done to death by slanderous tongues Was the Hero that here lies.
I cannot tell.
If more thou dost perceive, let me know more.
Trust me, I am glad on ’t.
No, let me know, And knowing what I am, I know what she shall be.
I must employ you in some business Against our nuptial and confer with you Of something nearly that concerns yourselves.
But he, poor man, by your first order died, And that a wingèd Mercury did bear.
I cannot blame thee now to weep, For such an injury would vex a very saint, Much more a shrew of thy impatient humor.
And when she put it on, she made me vow That I should neither sell nor give nor lose it.
Conscience,” say I, “you counsel well.” “Fiend,” say I, “you counsel well.” To be ruled by my conscience I should stay with the Jew my master, who, God bless the mark, is a kind of devil.
Then you will bring the chain to her yourself.
Let’s then determine with the ancient of war On our proceedings.
When I am known aright you shall not grieve Lending me this acquaintance.
It would become me As well as it does you, and I should do it With much more ease, for my good will is to it And yours it is against.
I by bargain should Wear it myself.
Put money in thy purse.
That defense thou hast, betake thee to ’t.
This is a man’s invention, and his hand.
Lips, do not move; No man must know.”
And in good time, Here comes Sir Richard Ratcliffe and the duke.
Locked in her monument.
Stand to ’t.
Here comes my lady.
Your wife and brother Made wars upon me, and their contestation Was theme for you.
Thou know’st where I will tarry.
And what said he?
Tis a match.
Thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight.
What mean you, sir?
Villain, thou know’st not law of God nor man.
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
Since that respects and fortunes are his love, I shall not be his wife.
See how they kiss and court!
Tis hatched, and shall be so.
What do you call the play?
Shame itself!
The lady protests too much, methinks.
What if I had said I had seen him do you wrong?
Do so.
Avaunt!
Besides, our hands are hard.
With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord, not with love.
I am your spaniel.
Oh, he is gone indeed.
So much for this, sir.
Not possible.
How now, Oswald?
O, sir, upon her nose, all o'er-embellished with rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of Spain, who sent whole armadas of caracks to be ballast at her nose.
Do you not hear him?
Adieu.
That head, my lord?
Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly rascally sheep-biter come by some notable shame?
What, is the man lunatic?
Fool, do not flatter.
And a true lover of the holy Church.
They did entreat me to acquaint her of it, But I persuaded them, if they loved Benedick, To wish him wrestle with affection And never to let Beatrice know of it.
Thou art come to answer A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch Uncapable of pity, void and empty From any dram of mercy.
Come, go with me; Under our tents I’ll play the eavesdropper To see if any mean to shrink from me.
I know the hand.
That’s as much as to say they are fools that marry.
Indeed she’s a most fresh and delicate creature.
There is a litter ready.
Look how thy servants do attend on thee, Each in his office ready at thy beck.
Here comes another of the tribe.
Oh, the cry did knock Against my very heart!
The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve.
Fare thee well!
I pray you, is my master yet returned?
If it be so, It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows That ever I have felt.
The “fiery” duke?
Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
She’s dead, my Queen.
Well run, Thisbe!
Pray, chuck, come hither.
Who goes there, ha?
Sue to him again and he’s yours.
Let’s follow it, and after do our work.
To have a thousand with red burning spits Come hissing in upon 'em!
Get your apparel together, good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your pumps.
From the four corners of the earth they come To kiss this shrine, this mortal breathing saint.
I’ll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
The rest march on with me.
Now let’s have a catch.
This business is well ended.
A pack of blessings light upon thy back, Happiness courts thee in her best array,
He knows that you embrace not Antony As you did love, but as you feared him.
O me!
In thy foul throat thou liest.
Come thee on.
We must follow the leaders.
Let’s talk.
And be not jealous on me, gentle Brutus.
Who ever knew the heavens menace so?
We see it and will say it.
Now, as thou lovest me, let me see his letter.
I would I were invisible, to catch the strong fellow by the leg.
The world affords no law to make thee rich.
Is supper ready, the house trimmed, rushes strewed, cobwebs swept, the servingmen in their new fustian, their white stockings, and every officer his wedding garment on?
What I should think of this I cannot tell, But this I think
Ah, women, women!
Zounds, who is there?
Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge.
We defy augury.
Ay.
Which is one?
Tis he.
Oh, give us leave, great king, To view the field in safety and dispose Of their dead bodies.
Somebody knocks.
Was this ambition?
There was no link to color Peter’s hat, And Walter’s dagger was not come from sheathing.
Why, that’s all one.
Is not your husband mad?
Send for the county.
What foul play had we that we came from thence?
And there were drawn Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women, Transformèd with their fear, who swore they saw Men all in fire walk up and down the streets.
I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you can the getting up of the Negro’s belly.
I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your welcome dear.
But this is from my commission.
And then the moon, like to a silver bow New bent in heaven, shall behold the night Of our solemnities.
The reason why the seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason.
The more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends.
The star is fall’n.
This prophecy Merlin shall make, for I live before his time.
I thank thee.
That will I do.
Death’s the end of all.
No.
The moblèd queen”?
So stood the state when Henry the Sixth Was crowned in Paris but at nine months old.
Ay, you did wish that I would make her turn.
Ay.
Gentlemen, rise.
Do it carefully.—And the noble and true-hearted Kent banished, his offense honesty!
I know you.
Hold him in safety till the Prince come hither.
My liege, your highness now may do me good.
Let their beds Be made as soft as yours and let their palates Be seasoned with such viands”?
Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear, So soon forsaken?
His son is elder, sir.
What news?
So, This is to horse.
But after many ceremonies done, He calls for wine.
Melt Egypt into Nile, and kindly creatures Turn all to serpents.
Lorenzo and Salerio, welcome hither, If that the youth of my new interest here Have power to bid you welcome.
I prithee, Remember I have done thee worthy service, Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served Without or grudge or grumblings.
O, no!
He did, and from my finger snatched that ring.
She is banished.
Madam wife, they say that I have dreamed And slept above some fifteen year or more.
 leave me alone for a little while.
Thou art too wild, too rude and bold of voice— Parts that become thee happily enough And in such eyes as ours appear not faults.
I’ll to the mart, and there for Dromio stay.
We are blessèd in the change.
Go, sirrah, trudge about Through fair Verona.
I prithee, foolish Greek, depart from me.
My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten nights' watchings.
This cannot be, By no assay of reason.
But if it were, doubt not her care should be To comb your noddle with a three-legged stool And paint your face and use you like a fool.
When the wind is southerly, I know a hawk from a handsaw.
He is a god and knows What is most right.
Tis not to make me jealous To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company, Is free of speech, sings, plays, and dances.
You will not then?
Tis done.
My noble lords and cousins all, good morrow.
Though his bark cannot be lost, Yet it shall be tempest-tossed.
Nothing can be made out of nothing.
And their tongues rot That speak against us!
And, for his passage, The soldiers' music and the rites of war Speak loudly for him.
Had you been as wise as bold, Young in limbs, in judgment old, Your answer had not been inscrolled.
They are about the court, And, as I think, they have already order This night to play before him.
Why, love, I say.
We are the queen’s abjects and must obey.— Brother, farewell.
On such a full sea are we now afloat, And we must take the current when it serves Or lose our ventures.
But I shall crave your pardon.
If he be so resolved, I can o'ersway him.
Do you see yonder cloud that’s almost in shape of a camel?
Arise, I say!
I will.
Tut, there’s life in ’t, man. 
No, some of it is for my child’s father.
But there’s no bottom, none, In my voluptuousness.
Laertes, I must commune with your grief, Or you deny me right.
You lack a man’s heart.
Do ’t.
What malice was between you?
Fetch me the handkerchief—my mind misgives.
He hath some meaning in his mad attire.
You are welcome.
Shut up your doors, my lord.
Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar’s body.
No place will please me so, no mean of death, As here by Caesar, and by you cut off, The choice and master spirits of this age.
Like one of two contending in a prize That thinks he hath done well in people’s eyes, Hearing applause and universal shout, Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt Whether these pearls of praise be his or no— So, thrice fair lady, stand I even so, As doubtful whether what I see be true Until confirmed, signed, ratified by you.
Make forth.
To supper?
Let’s meet as little as we can.
This is not altogether fool, my lord.
O, my old master.—Who hath bound him here?
How “wear the garland”?
Most veritable, therefore look to ’t well.
Know him?
I am scarce in breath, my lord.
By Cheshu, he is an ass, as in the world.
 you’ll be the one running away, and he’ll be in love with you.
By my head, here comes the Capulets.
This I’ll report, dear lady.
The French might have a good prey of us if he knew of it, for there is none to guard it but boys. 
Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth, and I praise God for you.  
I do repent me that I put it to you.
About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring That she did give me, whose posy was For all the world like cutler’s poetry Upon a knife, “Love me and leave me not.” What talk you of the posy or the value?
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding day.
See how beastly she doth court him!
I would have daffed all other respects and made her half myself.
What, man, courage yet!
Why, our battalia trebles that account.
He’s gone, but his wife’s killed.
But oh, how vile an idol proves this god!
If I live to see it, I will never trust his word after.
The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother’s soul being in heaven.
Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!
I do remember now.
Why, what canst thou tell, my boy?
You would say so, master, if your garments were thin.
Your worth is very dear in my regard.
O God, I have an ill-divining soul.
We have here recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth.
Most certain, sir.
I must another way To fetch a ladder, by the which your love Must climb a bird’s nest soon when it is dark.
I have heard of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on others, to taste their valor.
But note me, signor—
Thou 'rt mad to say it.
She’s full of most blessed condition.
A friend.
So, with two seeming bodies but one heart, Two of the first, like coats in heraldry, Due but to one and crownèd with one crest.
I pray you, sir, dispatch.
Here’s our own hands against our hearts.
And by how much she strives to do him good She shall undo her credit with the Moor.
Is ’t not Hortensio?
To tell you true, I counterfeit him.
Leave, gentle wax, and, manners, blame us not.
Oh, this is the poison of deep grief.
My lord, I came to see your father’s funeral.
These are the forgeries of jealousy.
We will be married o' Sunday.
I must with haste from hence.
If he love Caesar, all that he can do Is to himself
Many a morning hath he there been seen, With tears augmenting the fresh morning’s dew, Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs.
My pretty cousins, you mistake me both.
Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee.
My niece shall take note of it, and assure thyself, there is no love-broker in the world can more prevail in man’s commendation with woman than report of valor.
I do not know you so good a man as myself.
O Cleopatra!
Madam, not yet.
He’ll never yield to that.
Awake, I say!
I spoke with his man.
O, that’s the sword to it.
I can tell you, but young Romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him.
What, girl, though gray Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha’ we A brain that nourishes our nerves and can Get goal for goal of youth.
If you can separate yourself and your misdemeanors, you are welcome to the house.
What might you think?
Tis well.
Strike alarum, drums!
Hark!
My heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
We’ll feast each other ere we part, and let’s Draw lots who shall begin.
At mine unworthiness, that dare not offer What I desire to give, and much less take What I shall die to want.
Let me stand here till thou remember it.
Had he his hurts before?
Trust me, I take him for the better dog.
I cannot hear of any that did see her.
Good morrow, Caesar.
And discourse fustian with one’s own shadow?
Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand That chambers will be safe.
She will sit you—you heard my daughter tell you how.
He is very busy about it.
Yes, and shall do till the pangs of death shake him.
Darkness and devils!
I say, but mark his gesture.
What’s the matter?
Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tamed so.
But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.
But if thou diest before I come, thou art a mocker of my labor.
But he that tempered thee bade thee stand up, Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason, Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor.
Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
Oh, God 'i' good e'en.
It is the lark that sings so out of tune, Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
As you from crimes would pardoned be, Let your indulgence set me free.
And why not the swift foot of time?
Had all his hairs been lives My great revenge had stomach for them all.
None good, my liege, to please you with the hearing, Nor none so bad but well may be reported.
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
Then open not thy lips.
Will you to Scone?
Where I have come, great clerks have purposèd To greet me with premeditated welcomes, Where I have seen them shiver and look pale, Make periods in the midst of sentences, Throttle their practiced accent in their fears, And in conclusion dumbly have broke off, Not paying me a welcome.
But now I was the lord Of this fair mansion, master of my servants, Queen o'er myself.
We are very sorry for’t.
What, my good lord?
I see that thou art poor.
Bring me a father that so loved his child, Whose joy of her is overwhelmed like mine, And bid him speak of patience.
I know her father, though I know not her, And he knew my deceasèd father well.
Mine nightingale, We have beat them to their beds.
What would you, Desdemona?
But well.
For a fish without a fin, there’s a fowl without a feather.—   Go, get thee gone.
I pray you, tell it.
Go then, find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count Claudio alone.
This bud of love, by summer’s ripening breath, May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
Dost thou squiny at me?
Gentleman, God save thee.
I told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking, So full of valor that they smote the air For breathing in their faces, beat the ground For kissing of their feet—yet always bending Towards their project.
O my poor Rosalind, whither wilt thou go?
Hie you to the cell.
The king?
I had as lief be wooed of a snail.
It struck mine ear most terribly.
Let all the rest give place.
Not yet.”      The hour’s now come.
Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters blessing.
Well, peace be with you, sir.
You are a lover.
I will be flesh and blood, For there was never yet philosopher That could endure the toothache patiently, However they have writ the style of gods And made a push at chance and sufferance.
Wipe thine eyes.
Have I, Malvolio?
For the intent and purpose of the law Hath full relation to the penalty, Which here appeareth due upon the bond.
I made no such report.
Approach.
Whip him, fellows, Till like a boy, you see him cringe his face And whine aloud for mercy.
So, of his gentleness, Knowing I loved my books, he furnished me From mine own library with volumes that I prize above my dukedom.
I humbly thank you for’t.
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
I have seen nothing.
Send Thy token of reprieve.
She’s busy, and she cannot come!” Is that an answer?
Beware the ides of March.
Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.
And for the Jew’s bond which he hath of me, Let it not enter in your mind of love.
Farewell, thou woeful welcomer of glory.
What will you do with ’t, that you have been so earnest To have me filch it?
Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
It cannot be.
Wednesday is tomorrow.
The soul and body rive not more in parting Than greatness going off.
I will not take her on gift of any man.
Come, my young soldier, put up your iron.
Foul shame upon you, you have all moved mine.
I know not.
Under love’s heavy burden do I sink.
Why, if thou never wast at court, thou never saw’st good manners; if thou never saw’st good manners, then thy manners must be wicked, and wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation.
But a harsh hearing when women are froward.
You love me not.
Sawst thou the melancholy Lord Northumberland?
Two, two—a shirt and a smock.
Never, Iago.
Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock, And strike you home without a messenger.
And this.
They’re busy within.
No, sir, I say his horse comes, with him on his back.
And she is mine, and all my right of her I do estate unto Demetrius.
Why do you speak so faintly?
Oh, the heavens!
Well, gentlemen, I am thus resolved
Why is this reasoned?
Our power is ready; Our lack is nothing but our leave.
Dorset, embrace him.—Hastings, love Lord Marquess.
But let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my trial, wherein, if I be foiled, there is but one shamed that was never gracious; if killed, but one dead that was willing to be so.
Then call we this the field of Agincourt, Fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus.
By my holy order, I thought thy disposition better tempered.
What shall I do?
If but as well I other accents borrow, That can my speech diffuse, my good intent May carry through itself to that full issue For which I razed my likeness.
But thou must needs be sure My spirits and my place have in their power To make this bitter to thee.
I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
Though I am mad, I will not bite him.
No, not till a hot January.
And so am I revenged.—That would be scanned.
Where did you leave him?
My lord.
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier’s nose, And then dreams he of smelling out a suit.
Good your grace, pardon me.
Good your highness, patience.
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
No, not till Thursday.
But notwithstanding, haste.
No more.
There’s enough.
Ay, sir.
Now, good Metellus, go along by him.
She’s dead as earth.
To seek my uncle in the Forest of Arden.
What, not to pray?
It were a tedious difficulty, I think, To bring them to that prospect.
Some of them will fall tomorrow, I hope.
Here come two noble beasts in, a man and a lion.
Barnardo has my place.
A good persuasion.
O Friar, the damnèd use that word in hell.
What would my lord, but that he may not have, Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable?
For Pyramus is a sweet-faced man, a proper man as one shall see in a summer’s day, a most lovely, gentlemanlike man.
How is it else the “man i' th' moon”?
And I for no woman.
My dearest love, Duncan comes here tonight.
In Caesar’s fleet Are those that often have ’gainst Pompey fought.
I and my bosom must debate awhile, And then I would no other company.
I do assure you, ’tis against my will.
Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture To be so taken at thy peril, Jew.
 cold, but kindly.
Ay, he spoke Greek.
A miracle!
I am so much a fool, should I stay longer It would be my disgrace and your discomfort.
And I with him.
You have not seen such a thing as ’tis.
Why, why is this?
I am sorry for thee.
That’s my brave lord!
With what addition?
The question of Cordelia and her father Requires a fitter place.
In nothing am I changed But in my garments.
Monday, my lord.
It might, my lord.
In your dumps?
Therefore get you on and give him his desire.
There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats, For I am armed so strong in honesty That they pass by me as the idle wind, Which I respect not.
Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.
When will he be here?
Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
He’s married.
Therefore, my lords, omit no happy hour That may give furth'rance to our expedition; For we have now no thought in us but France, Save those to God, that run before our business.
With news the time’s with labor, and throws forth Each minute some.
So I, to find a mother and a brother, In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself.
We please them not by land.
Indeed, they say the senators tomorrow Mean to establish Caesar as a king, And he shall wear his crown by sea and land In every place save here in Italy.
Why, so I did.
The trick of that voice I do well remember.
That is enough to satisfy the senate.
The most you sought was her promotion, For ’twas your heaven she should be advanced.
I am full of pleasure.
Good morrow, Kate—for that’s your name, I hear.
Mum, then, and no more.
Cleopatra Hath nodded him to her.
This if she perform, She shall not sue unheard.
It is Brabantio.
Ye gods, it doth amaze me A man of such a feeble temper should So get the start of the majestic world And bear the palm alone.
Speak to us.
I love your majesty According to my bond, no more nor less.
Or stole it, rather.
And die in music.
Fare you well.
And, good boy, good night.
You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers That bear this heavy mutual load of moan, Now cheer each other in each other’s love.
Thus may we gather honey from the weed And make a moral of the devil himself.
Sweet soul, let’s in, and there expect their coming.
The broken rancor of your high-swoll'n hates, But lately splintered, knit, and joined together, Must gently be preserved, cherished, and kept.
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke, But here I am to speak what I do know.
It comes upon me.—Art thou any thing?
His name is Balthazar.
I know the glove is a glove.
Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills Unto the legions on the other side.
Tell me thine first.
Holds it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain?
Sirrah, your father’s dead.
I do consent—    Prick him down, Antony.
Over hill, over dale,  Thorough bush, thorough brier,  Over park, over pale,  Thorough flood, thorough fire.
That is where we dined, Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband.
 did you just come from the bridge?
An adder did it, for with doubler tongue Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung.
Sir, she is mortal.
I would exult, man.
Sleep shall neither night nor day Hang upon his penthouse lid.
Tremblingly she stood And on the sudden dropped.
I cannot think you are my son.
Let me see his face.
And in this habit Met I my father with his bleeding rings, Their precious stones new lost, became his guide, Led him, begged for him, saved him from despair.
Then murder’s out of tune, And sweet revenge grows harsh.
If you will watch his going thence (which I will fashion to fall out between twelve and one) you may take him at your pleasure.
I think the duke will not be spoke withal.
Speak, Pyramus.—Thisbe, stand forth.
What think you on ’t?
He cries for you, and vows, if he can take you, To scorch your face and to disfigure you.
Ay, boy.
Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want Of what I was i’ th’ morning.
You have too much respect upon the world.
Did he take interest?
All with me’s meet that I can fashion fit.
My house was at the Phoenix?
This, this All Souls' Day to my fearful soul Is the determined respite of my wrongs.
Well, what worst?
You are an ass, you are an ass!
Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius?
Ay, better than him I am before knows me.
But few of any sort, and none of name.
The thoughts of people.
And therefore is he idle?
Spakest thou of Juliet?
Saint Francis be my speed!
But yet hie you to Egypt again.
You must be father to your brother’s daughter, And give her to young Claudio.
How came he mad?
Unreal mockery, hence!
She hath prevented me.
Good Volumnius, Thou know’st that we two went to school together.
I would thou hadst my bones and I thy news.
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest.
Within these two months—that’s a month before This bond expires—I do expect return Of thrice three times the value of this bond.
Stand back.
Do not talk to me, Emilia.
A very even way, but no such friend.
You are looked for and called for, asked for and sought for, in the great chamber.
All torment, trouble, wonder, and amazement Inhabits here.
And I do with an eye of love requite her.
So did you me, my liege.
Nay, but hear me.
After my death, the one half of my lands, And, in possession, twenty thousand crowns.
Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise.
By heaven, I’ll make a ghost of him that lets me.
Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go and presently call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of a knave.
Truly, sir, the better for my foes and the worse for my friends.
I shall.
I' faith, or I either?
No more.
So please my lord the duke and all the court, To quit the fine for one half of his goods I am content, so he will let me have The other half in use to render it Upon his death unto the gentleman That lately stole his daughter.
The tyrannous and bloody act is done, The most arch deed of piteous massacre That ever yet this land was guilty of.
Because I would not see thy cruèl nails Pluck out his poor old eyes, nor thy fierce sister In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs.
The ground is bloody.—Search about the churchyard.
I long to know the truth hereof at large.
My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long borne Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs.
Know you not he has?
I have as much of this in art as you, But yet my nature could not bear it so.
Nothing that is so is so.
Come, Charmian.
Twenty crowns?
Cure her of that.
Fie, what a slug is Hastings that he comes not To tell us whether they will come or no!
I know into what straits of fortune she is driven, and it is not impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient to you, to set her before your eyes tomorrow, human as she is, and without any danger.
Then belike my children shall have no names.
I greet thy love Not with vain thanks but with acceptance bounteous, And will upon the instant put thee to ’t.
The fold stands empty in the drownèd field, And crows are fatted with the murrain flock.
And will you rent our ancient love asunder To join with men in scorning your poor friend?
Hie to high fortune!
Oh, ’twas a din to fright a monster’s ear, To make an earthquake!
Good, i' faith.
O Romeo, Romeo!
Then ’tis like the breath of an unfee’d lawyer.
The great contention of the sea and skies Parted our fellowship—   But, hark!
We’ll bury him, and then, what’s brave, what’s noble, Let’s do ’t after the high Roman fashion And make death proud to take us.
Touching our person, seek we no revenge, But we our kingdom’s safety must so tender, Whose ruin you have sought, that to her laws We do deliver you.
Tis not fit thus to obey him.
Pardon me.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon 'em.
My lord, the first time that I ever saw him Methought he was a brother to your daughter.
Two o'clock is your hour? 
The children thus disposed, my wife and I, Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fixed, Fastened ourselves at either end the mast And, floating straight, obedient to the stream, Was carried towards Corinth, as we thought.
Lord Mayor, the reason we have sent— Look back!
I know you what you are, And like a sister am most loath to call Your faults as they are named.
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
And I for Ganymede.
All thy tediousness on me, ah?
I dare not confess that lest I should compare with him in excellence, but to know a man well were to know himself.
You saw they speak us fair, give us gold.
Committed?
Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue.
If I should be?
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
Death, traitor!
Sola, sola!
Let me sit down.
O mistress, villainy hath made mocks with love!
God and our good cause fight upon our side.
Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
The article of my oath?
Adieu, adieu!
Where is my page?—Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
We took this mattock and this spade from him As he was coming from this churchyard’s side.
That’s her torment.
She speaks.
I had as lief be a Brownist as a politician.
Do not yourself such wrong, who are in this Relieved but not betrayed.
What love could press Lysander from my side?
Thou hast taken against me a most just exception, but yet I protest I have dealt most directly in thy affair.
We will meet, and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously.
A good old commander and a most kind gentleman.
The money that you owe me for the chain.
Though it be honest, it is never good To bring bad news.
Let it be who it is.
Sir?
Here comes Sir Oliver.—Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met.
What though he love your Hermia?
Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires, Men so disordered, so debauched and bold That this our court, infected with their manners, Shows like a riotous inn.
Give me leave awhile.
No, no.
Spit, fire!
No more of that.
This servitude makes you to keep unwed.
Pray God, I say, I prove a needless coward!
Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there?
Peter Quince— What sayest thou, bully Bottom?
Are you sure of that?
Post-post-haste, dispatch.
Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps, no more, And throw between them all the food thou hast, They’ll grind the one the other.
The valiant never taste of death but once.
Here’s one comes in his shirt, with light and weapons.
Monster, your fairy, which you say is a harmless fairy, has done little better than played the jack with us.
The foe vaunts in the field.
Spoke like an officer!
But here my father comes.
We doubt it nothing.
What hath quenched them hath given me fire.
One?
Look you, the worm is not to be trusted but in the keeping of wise people, for indeed there is no goodness in the worm.
Give me the daggers.
There lay he, stretched along like a wounded knight.
Why, there’s more gold.
Why should I not?
The lady of the Strachy married the yeoman of the wardrobe.
The sight whereof I think you had from me, From Claudio and the Prince.
I love to cope him in these sullen fits, For then he’s full of matter.
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end.— O churl, drunk all, and left no friendly drop To help me after?
All that is spoke is marred.
Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires.
Silver.
Who is it in the press that calls on me?
Tell thou the tale!
What is he, Biondello?
Therefore, my sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry.
I pray you, uncle, give me this dagger.
You’ll not endure him!
Indeed he is not fit.
He is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
Here, sir!
Behold and see.
Oh, where is Romeo?
But in this case of wooing, A child shall get a sire, if I fail not of my cunning.
Murellus and Flavius, for pulling scarfs off Caesar’s images, are put to silence.
Tedious it were to tell and harsh to hear.
Can it be possible that no man saw them?
Why, I pray you?
Most mighty duke, vouchsafe me speak a word.
First, I must tell thee this
O, teach me how you look and with what art You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart.
I know you not.
Is thy master coming?
Yea, an ’twere a thousand pound more than ’tis, for I hear as good exclamation on your Worship as of any man in the city, and though I be but a poor man, I am glad to hear it.
Well said, old mole!
No disgrace Shall fall you for refusing him at sea, Being prepared for land.
O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth, Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment, And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
I am no child, no babe.
I shifted him away And laid good ’scuses upon your ecstasy,
And what they may incense him to, being apt To have his ear abused, wisdom bids fear.
She’s the worse for all this.
And tell the Dauphin His jest will savor but of shallow wit When thousands weep more than did laugh at it.
Why did you so?
I find here that Don Pedro hath bestowed much honor on a young Florentine called Claudio.
Dispatch.—Enobarbus!
Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for a boy, as a squash is before ’tis a peascod, or a codling when ’tis almost an apple.
Not a dump, we.
And that same vengeance doth He hurl on thee For false forswearing and for murder too.
Shall I tell you why?
Not th’ imperious show Of the full-fortuned Caesar ever shall Be brooched with me.
I am young, but something You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom To offer up a weak, poor, innocent lamb T' appease an angry god.
Thou bring’st me out of tune.
Let me work.
My lord, this would not be believed in Venice, Though I should swear I saw ’t.
Oh, that his fault should make a knave of thee, That art not what th’ art sure of!
When valor preys on reason, It eats the sword it fights with.
Very good, my lord.
I am no more mad than you are.
Thisbe?
I am feared in field and town.
I will forestall their repair hither and say you are not fit.
Well be with you, gentlemen.
I assure you, Carthage.
What is a traitor?
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit Of an old tear that is not washed off yet.
Soft, comes he not here?
Who, I, my lord?
I am satisfied.
Thus it must be.
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
And thus a while the fit will work on him.
It is a creature That dotes on Cassio, as ’tis the strumpet’s plague To beguile many and be beguiled by one.
Romeo!

M.O.A.I.” This simulation is not as the former, and yet to crush this a little, it would bow to me, for every one of these letters are in my name.
O all you host of heaven!
Turning th' accomplishment of many years Into an hour-glass; for the which supply, Admit me chorus to this history; Who, prologue-like, your humble patience pray Gently to hear, kindly to judge our play.
I would I had thy inches.
Well, the beginning that is dead and buried.
When I think, I must speak.
There was, for a while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question.
To his conveyance I assign my wife, With what else needful your good grace shall think To be sent after me.
Most radiant, exquisite and unmatchable beauty—I pray you, tell me if this be the lady of the house, for I never saw her.
Fear nothing.
I am as mad as he, If sad and merry madness equal be.
And so did I.
As willingly as e'er I came from school.
Where hast thou sent the king?
I will have nothing else but only this.
Give me a taper, call up all my people!
Oh, what authority and show of truth Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
But who comes here?
I pray you all, stand up.
If to have done the thing you gave in charge Beget your happiness, be happy then, For it is done.
I would not be mad.
Some haste, my lord!
The duke’s to blame in this.
Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
Go, some of you, And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
He, sir, that must marry this woman.
Barren my wit?
Let’s do so.
My charge was but to fetch you from the mart Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner.
I could not stay behind you.
Well, as time shall try.
Where is Lucentio?
And therefore, I pray thee, news.
I am not Stephano, but a cramp.
My lady would not lose him for more than I’ll say.
Nor hath Love’s mind of any judgment taste— Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste.
Do you smell a fault?
I have forgot your name, but sure that part Was aptly fitted and naturally performed.
Come hither, come!
Tis a strange serpent.
Horatio says ’tis but our fantasy And will not let belief take hold of him Touching this dreaded sight twice seen of us.
Take up the sword again, or take up me.
A strange fish!
O, she that might have intercepted thee, By strangling thee in her accursèd womb, From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done.
My husband!
Good Portia, go to bed.
What had he done to you?
Scorn and defiance, slight regard, contempt, And anything that may not misbecome The mighty sender, doth he prize you at.
Confess yourself freely to her, importune her help to put you in your place again.
Quiet thy cudgel.
Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if philosophy could find it out.
O, in the duke of Gloucester’s purse.
Is ’t possible, my lord?
If thy speech be sooth, I care not if thou dost for me as much.
Tarry, Petruchio, I must go with thee, For in Baptista’s keep my treasure is.
We are no tyrant, but a Christian king, Unto whose grace our passion is as subject As is our wretches fettered in our prisons.
I’ll have an action of battery against him if there be any law in Illyria.
Oh, that estates, degrees and offices Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honor Were purchased by the merit of the wearer!
But those that understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads.
Live thou, I live.
For any good That I myself have done unto myself?
Now, Catesby, what says your lord to my request?
If I do not usurp myself, I am.
Let us, Lepidus, not lack your company.
If our father would sleep till I waked him, you should enjoy half his revenue forever, and live the beloved of your brother,       Edgar.”  Hum, conspiracy?
I never saw my father in my life.
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
Wherein, my friends, have I offended you?
Wherefore do you come?
Set down, set down your honorable load, If honor may be shrouded in a hearse, Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament Th' untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster.
That’s a perilous shot out of an elder gun, that a poor and private displeasure can do against a monarch.
If you’ll patch a quarrel, As matter whole you have to make it with, It must not be with this.
You cannot feed capons so.
That’s my noble master!
This fellow doth not stand upon points.
I must discontinue your company.
No, that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot of thought, conceived of spleen, and born of madness, that blind rascally boy that abuses everyone’s eyes because his own are out, let him be judge how deep I am in love.
I am stuffed, cousin.
It cannot be.
Not yet, my cousin.
Prithee, be not angry.
Flies may do this, but I from this must fly.
Ay, but these English are shrewdly out of beef.
It was well done, and thou shalt sleep again.
Yet I cannot choose but laugh To think it should leave crying and say “ay.” And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow A bump as big as a young cockerel’s stone, A perilous knock, and it cried bitterly.
The hour of death is expiate.
Lend me thy handkerchief.
It signs well, does it not?
I call them forth to credit her.
We have lost your son, I fear, forever.
And you, fair sister.
I have it here about me.
What if I strayed no further, but chose here?
By such despair I should accuse myself.
Speak once again.
News, lads, Our wars are done!
What else?
Murder most foul, as in the best it is.
You lie out on ’t, sir, and therefore it is not yours.
I sent you money, sir, to be your bail By Dromio, but I think he brought it not.
Take up those cords.—Poor ropes, you are beguiled, Both you and I, for Romeo is exiled.
Authority.
Hear me, for I will speak.
Just, just; and the men do sympathize with the mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on, leaving their wits with their wives.
Think you to walk forth?
But if I give my wife a handkerchief— What then?
The terms of our estate may not endure Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow Out of his lunacies.
Oh, ’twill be admirable!
Where do you dwell?
Poor and content is rich, and rich enough, But riches fineless is as poor as winter To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
I will have such revenges on you both That all the world shall—I will do such things— What they are yet I know not, but they shall be The terrors of the earth.
The world is not thy friend nor the world’s law.
In his livery Walked crowns and crownets.
And she’s fair I love.
I protest I take these wise men that crow so at these set kind of fools no better than the fools' zanies.
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender Of my child’s love.
Look you, she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly, And so did I.
I am a gentleman of a company.
Knock, knock, knock!
I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found The head and source of all your son’s distemper.
You know tomorrow is the wedding day.
Things that are past are done, with me.
This green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house, and we will do it in action as we will do it before the duke.
Young boys and girls Are level now with men.
I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness.
Did I not tell you she was innocent?
If the heavens had been pleased, would we had so ended!
O villain, villain!
What, An advocate for an imposter?
My kind Antonio, I can no other answer make but thanks, And thanks, and ever thanks.
Nothing, my lord.
There be land rats and water rats, water thieves and land thieves—I mean pirates—and then there is the peril of waters, winds, and rocks.
Is it not Hero?
Tear him to pieces.
The worst fault you have is to be in love.
I do suffer love indeed, for I love thee against my will.
Oh, bloody period!
I have it, And soundly too.
Thou dost see I eat.
But was not this nigh shore?
Methinks they are such a gentle nation that, but for the mountain of mad flesh 
Flower of this purple dye, Hit with Cupid’s archery, Sink in apple of his eye.
Oh, these flaws and starts, Impostors to true fear, would well become A woman’s story at a winter’s fire, Authorized by her grandam.
What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food, Or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce A thievish living on the common road?
Famine is in thy cheeks.
But, mistress, know yourself.
I never thought him worse.
Go to, away.
No, no, he’s gone.
Good my lord, enter here.
One knocks.
Remember me.” I have sworn ’t.
Go to, go to.—Come hither, sir.
I am very ill at ease, Unfit for mine own purposes.
So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee, With urging helpless patience would relieve me; But, if thou live to see like right bereft, This fool-begged patience in thee will be left.
Still be ’t yours.
I thank you, gentle uncle.
But till that time Come not thou near me.
And be all traitors that do so?
It is too late.
Thou dost not mark me.
Farewell, my lords.
O comfortable Friar!
Throw this slave Upon the dunghill.—Regan, I bleed apace.
Answer as I call you.—Nick Bottom, the weaver?
Be it so.
What are you?
Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius, That you would have me seek into myself For that which is not in me?
Therefore let every man now task his thought, That this fair action may on foot be brought.
But wherefore art not in thy shop today?
Kent, father, sisters!
Give me some music.
When you take occasions to see leeks hereafter, I pray you, mock at 'em, that is all.
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet.
I’ll help you, Sir Toby, because we’ll be dressed together.
Perchance he will not mind me.
The son of Clarence have I pent up close, His daughter meanly have I matched in marriage, The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham’s bosom, And Anne my wife hath bid this world goodnight.
How sound is she asleep!
I did so, and went further, which is now Our point of second meeting.
O Harry’s wife, triumph not in my woes!
Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
Yes, that the king is dead.
Or keep it as a cistern for foul toads To knot and gender in!
Thou art armed, Gloucester.
An he should, it were an alms to hang him.
I fear thou wilt once more come again for a ransom.
Good day and happiness, dear Rosalind.
Fairly spoke.
It will be short.
Tis cowardly and womanish.
This same is she, and I do give you her.
What’s here?
Murder, murder!
Wilt thou have music?
Smile you my speeches as I were a fool?
I’ll do ’t, but it dislikes me.
Go and commend me to my brother Cassius.
I know young bloods look for a time of rest.
We do not know.
Madam, how like you this play?
It would seem strange unto him when he waked.
The clerk is answered.
Push home.
Good master, take it not unkindly, pray, That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
Belovèd Regan, Thy sister’s naught.
Will you speak well of him that killed your cousin?
Put color in thy cheek.
And if it sort not well, you may conceal her, As best befits her wounded reputation, In some reclusive and religious life, Out of all eyes, tongues, minds, and injuries.
For, meeting her of late behind the wood, Seeking sweet favors from this hateful fool, I did upbraid her and fall out with her.
Go shake your ears!
He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.
He uses his folly like a stalking-horse, and under the presentation of that he shoots his wit.
It is just so high as it is, and moves with its own organs.
What is the matter with thee?
With robbers' hands my hospitable favors You should not ruffle thus.
I am the king himself.
Do you hear, you minion?
My lord, I do not know that I did cry.
There thou mayst brain him, Having first seized his books; or with a log Batter his skull; or paunch him with a stake; Or cut his weasand with thy knife.
And will you give me leave?
So can I.
Be ruled by me.
This would have seemed a period To such as love not sorrow, but another To amplify too much would make much more And top extremity.
Tush, thou art deceived.
Wilt thou go to bed, Malvolio?
Nay, how now, where are you?
Three or four wenches where I stood cried, “Alas, good soul!” and forgave him with all their hearts.
O God, your only jig-maker.
Now must the world point at poor Katherine And say, “Lo, there is mad Petruchio’s wife, If it would please him come and marry her!”   Upon my life, Petruchio means but well, Whatever fortune stays him from his word
God 'ild you, sir.
Who must hang them?
One of these three contains her heavenly picture.
Go you to him from me.
Oh, ay, as summer flies are in the shambles, That quicken even with blowing.
His forward voice now is to speak well of his friend.
An please your Majesty, let his neck answer for it, if there is any martial law in the world.
And yours of Helena to me bequeath, Whom I do love and will do till my death.
 you’ve put him down.
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what.
Let 'em enter.
The passages of alleys, creeks, and narrow lands; A hound that runs counter and yet draws dryfoot well, One that before the judgment carries poor souls to hell.
No man’s life was to be trusted with them.
Romeo, away, be gone!
Yet, if you be out, sir, I can mend you.
Offended us you have not, but the king.
No, we’ll reason with him.
Lives he?
Lead me on.
No man must know.” If this should be thee, Malvolio?
My clerk hath some good comforts too for you.
Yes, I intend so.
You were sent for, and there is a kind of confession in your looks which your modesties have not craft enough to color.
My lord, I cannot.
Hear you aught of her in yours?
I think thou art in mind, and so am I. Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
Fie, for shame!
O' Thursday be it, then.— Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed.
Nay, then I must have an ounce or two of this malapert blood from you.
Why are you silent?
This is Lucentio’s house.
These fellows have some soul,
I’ll not be far from you.
Th' occasion speaks thee, and My strong imagination sees a crown Dropping upon thy head.
No, wench!
This fellow is wise enough to play the fool, And to do that well craves a kind of wit.
Let music sound while he doth make his choice.
Haply your eye shall light upon some toy You have desire to purchase, and your store, I think, is not for idle markets, sir.
Are they so followed?
His highness is not well.
Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side.
But how did you desire it should be made?
Good time of day unto my gracious lord.
No, no, they would not.
Good morrow to your Worship.
You or any man living may be drunk at a time, man.
What promise, chuck?
Go to my chamber, put on clothes of mine.
Here’s a change indeed!
And I in all unwillingness will go.
I will bestow a breakfast to make you friends; and we’ll be all three sworn brothers to France.
I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife With wealth enough, and young and beauteous, Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman.
Do you mark that, my lord?
Good faith, and when I met this holy man, The men you talk of came into my mind.
Canidius and the rest That fell away have entertainment but No honorable trust.
We will yet do well.
Ah, ha, my lord, this prince is not an Edward!
It is but trash.
The messengers!
I come but in as others do, to try with him the strength of my youth.
Seyton!
Your answer, sir, is enigmatical.
Her husband, sirrah?
Yet here’s a spot.
Not for Cadwallader and all his goats.
There, take you that, sir knave.
With meditating that she must die once, I have the patience to endure it now.
Thou shall present me as an eunuch to him.
The selfsame name, but one of better nature.
When Caesar says, “do this,” it is performed.
So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend Which you weep for.
Silence!
That’s most certain, and with you.
Caesar should be a beast without a heart If he should stay at home today for fear.
O, wilt thou darkling leave me?
Not yet.
I have done my duty.
Ay, my good lord.
Tis proper I obey him, but not now.
He is a good one, and his worthiness Does challenge much respect.—Come, Desdemona, Once more, well met at Cyprus.
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
Tush, I may as well say the fool’s the fool.
What should a man do but be merry?
You’ll cry for this, minion, if I beat the door down.
For this time I will leave you.
You may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar.
So in the world.
Here therefore for a while I will remain.
Hear the noble Antony.
To his father, that so tenderly and entirely loves him.
Tis a naughty night to swim in.
By my fay, a goodly nap.
And so, I pray thee, call Beatrice.
Down with the Capulets!
Most royal majesty, I crave no more than hath your highness offered.
Far off methinks I hear the beaten drum.
What villains have done this?
Anon!
And therefore, good Grumio, the news.
Were you well served, you would be taught your duty.
Do not break off so, For we may pity though not pardon thee.
Amen, amen to that fair prayer, say I.
What, rouse thee, man!
Twill not be seen in him there.
Nay, by Saint Jamy, I hold you a penny, A horse and a man Is more than one And yet not many.
This thou shalt answer.
As I am an honest man, I thought you had received some bodily wound.
What not put upon His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt Of our great quell?
Do so.
As I stood here below, methought his eyes Were two full moons.
What then?
Thou didst prevent me.
A grievous fault.—Say, woman, didst thou so?
Do you sing it, and I’ll dance it.
Let her not say ’tis I that keep you here.
We shall obey, were she ten times our mother.
Say to the king I would attend his leisure For a few words.
Now is it Rome indeed, and room enough, When there is in it but one only man.
I have heard too much, and your words and performances are no kin together.
Welcome, Publius.
Why, well.
Spake you not these words plain
Let your epilogue alone.
When he is gone I would on great occasion speak with you.
His spirits hear me And yet I needs must curse.
My lord, most humbly on my knee I beg The leading of the vaward.
Tis certain there’s not a boy left alive, and the cowardly rascals that ran from the battle ha' done this slaughter.
Stirred up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Morton, He makes for England, here to claim the crown.
I must be gone.
I must to the barber’s, monsieur, for methinks I am marvelous hairy about the face.
Then, you conclude, my grandam, he is dead.
I thank God, I thank God!
Maintain a mourning ostentation, And on your family’s old monument Hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites That appertain unto a burial.
Do you mark that?
Tis strange, my Theseus, that these lovers speak of.
Farewell, my lord.
These English woes will make me smile in France.
I am ready now.
I have a pain upon my forehead, here.
That handkerchief Which I so loved and gave thee, thou gav’st To Cassio.
Thou makest me merry.
Things at the worst will cease, or else climb upward To what they were before.—My pretty cousin, Blessing upon you.
March to the bridge.
But come, I’ll tell thee all my whole device When I am in my coach, which stays for us At the park gate.
To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
We must bear all.
Let me entreat you.
Even for the blood That then I lost for thee, now grant me justice.
Look to my chattels and my movables.
Here’s a madman will murder me.
Thou praisest the worst best.
The strings, my lord, are false.
Not to be abed after midnight is to be up betimes, and  Nay, my troth, I know not.
Let it go all.
And shall, sir.
Tarry, rash wanton.
Shortly shall all my labors end, and thou Shalt have the air at freedom.
Why, whose is it?
Thyself a queen, for me that was a queen, Outlive thy glory, like my wretched self.
By my troth, a good song.
Thanks, good Egeus.
She must change for youth.
Monstrous!
Sir, are not you my father?
O monstrous world!
Hence, horrible villain, or I’ll spurn thine eyes Like balls before me!
By your patience, no.
They mean to warn us at Philippi here, Answering before we do demand of them.
Fare thee well, nymph.
O mighty Caesar!
Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee.
Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs, And I will give you audience.
A proper saying!
Say, how is that?
With no sauce that can be devised to it.
Twas never merry world Since lowly feigning was call’d compliment.
Macbeth Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above Put on their instruments.
Yes.
Strike, drum.
I’ll have the work ta'en out And give ’t Iago.
Tis mightiest in the mightiest.
The heads of the maids?
Some comfort, Nurse.
Whither?
I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his opinion.
I do love it better than laughing.
Father, in.
My prayers, minx?
O me, my heart, my rising heart!
Thy life’s a miracle.
I will weep.
God shield I should disturb devotion!— Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye.
When I am alone, why then I am Tranio; But in all places else, your master Lucentio.
Men that hazard all Do it in hope of fair advantages.
How now, my dear Othello?
Caesar gets money where He loses hearts.
Why, the night gone by.
That nature, which contemns its origin Cannot be bordered certain in itself.
Thomas the earl of Surrey and himself, Much about cockshut time, from troop to troop Went through the army cheering up the soldiers.
That you should think we come not to offend, But with good will.
But ’tis not so above.
Comes not that blood as modest evidence To witness simple virtue?
Call to me All my sad captains.
Let them be hunted soundly.
Yea, my lord.
Good Maria, let this fellow be looked to.
But ’tis not so.
My countrymen—     Peace, silence!
Ay, my commander.
Not a word.
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
No more with me.
Fair lady, do you think you have fools in hand?
There are my keys.—But wherefore should I go?
Let me comply with you in this garb—lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you, must show fairly outwards, should more appear like entertainment than yours.
Stay, on thy peril.
I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall, That I may speak.
Come, what says Romeo?
I one, my lord.
Any strange beast there makes a man.
Hail.
How does my wife?
And look when I am king, claim thou of me The earldom of Hereford, and all the moveables Whereof the king my brother was possessed.
Pour in sow’s blood, that hath eaten Her nine farrow; grease that’s sweaten From the murderer’s gibbet throw Into the flame.
Some to Decius' house and some to Casca’s.
I have no ambition To see a goodlier man.
Our general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona—who let us not therefore blame.
Woo’t weep?
Biondello, what of that?
Who sued to me for him?
His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him that Nature might stand up And say to all the world, “This was a man.” According to his virtue let us use him, With all respect and rites of burial.
When I came back— For this was brief— I found them close together At blow and thrust, even as again they were When you yourself did part them.
This not to do, So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
So let it be with Caesar.
Let me have your hand.
I’ll drink to her as long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria.
Cassio’s my worthy friend— My lord, I see you’re moved.
What’s the matter?
Good my lord— You have been a boggler ever.
Then must we look from his age to receive not alone the imperfections of long-engrafted condition, but therewithal the unruly waywardness that infirm and choleric years bring with them.
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
My noble brother!
If I do so, it will be of more price Being spoke behind your back than to your face.
Tie up my love’s tongue.
The mayor is here at hand.
I do, Mark Antony.
If I should take a displeasure against you, look you—  Thou wert but a lost monster.
Tis mine and I will have it.
Hold, then.
Death is my son-in-law.
If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on him?
I’ll do ’t, my lord.
Stand aside.
Live, live!
Too old by heaven.
And joy comes well in such a needy time.
Yet poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
Fool, I say!
Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world Like a Colossus, and we petty men Walk under his huge legs and peep about To find ourselves dishonorable graves.
I hope, in no place so unsanctified Where such as thou mayst find him.
Marry, before your ladyship, I grant, She puts her tongue a little in her heart And chides with thinking.
Uncle, your Grace knows how to bear with him.
Come, you and I will thither presently.
What likelihood of his amendment, lords?
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
Tomorrow, then, I judge a happy day.
O dear!
I do not now fool myself, to let imagination jade me, for every reason excites to this, that my lady loves me.
Horns?
Away, then.
Strike his wife?
Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell His way to Dover.
To take the widow Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril, And hardly shall I carry out my side, Her husband being alive.
I am more proud to be Sir Rowland’s son, His youngest son, and would not change that calling To be adopted heir to Frederick.
Do not, Phoebe.
It is hypocrisy against the devil.
We do, my lord.
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man.
Why, my young cousin?
Peter!
My lady bade me tell you, that, though she harbors you as her kinsman, she’s nothing allied to your disorders.
Here will I rest me till the break of day.
What think you on ’t?
That is done, sir.
Why, what would you?
Who knows not that?
Skipper, stand back.
Now the fleeting moon No planet is of mine.
To, to, to— To murder me?
Ay, and he’ll tame her.
It follows, then, the cat must stay at home.
Some to Ligarius'.
I speak in understanding.
Son, I’ll be your half Bianca comes.
Still am I called.—Unhand me, gentlemen.
What lawful quest have given their verdict up Unto the frowning judge?
Here comes my noble gull-catcher.
What is it?
Well, but what’s o'clock?
Well, I conceive.
To the seaside straightway!
I go.
The Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of Leonato.
Proceed, proceed.
Am I a married man or a bachelor?
Happily met, the happier for thy son.
O Antony, Antony, Antony!
They would else have been troubled with a pernicious suitor.
If he please To give me conquered Egypt for my son, He gives me so much of mine own as I Will kneel to him with thanks.
Oh, whither hast thou led me, Egypt?
You know I say nothing to him, for he understands not me, nor I him.
Oh, villainy, villainy!
Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
Troth, no, no more than reason.
Yea, the same.
Why should calamity be full of words?
Tooth that poisons if it bite, Mastiff, greyhound, mongrel grim,
No, nor more fearful.
Therefore be cheered.
An if the wind blow any way from shore, I will not harbor in this town tonight.
You are a spirit, I know.
Ah, welladay!
Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed.
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
I think thou dost.
Macbeth.
O, let me kiss that hand!
What didst not like?
I thank you.
Troth, I think your other rebato were better.
Not till you have slept.
The letters that he speaks of  May be my friends.
Thy reason, man?
All things that are, Are with more spirit chasèd than enjoyed.
For love of God, forbear him.
So well thy words become thee as thy wounds; They smack of honor both.
More validity, More honorable state, more courtship lives In carrion flies than Romeo.
Thou need’st not to be gone.
To tell you where he lodges is to tell you where I lie.
Come forth, thou fearful man.
And ever will—though he do shake me off To beggarly divorcement—love him dearly, Comfort forswear me!
To the selfsame tune and words.
Here comes your father.
My dearest cousin and my dearer lord?
Hurt him in eleven places.
What kind of god art thou, that suffer’st more Of mortal griefs than do thy worshippers?
All’s well.
No, my lord.
Thou know’st my daughter’s of a pretty age.
Master Fer.
For Edward, for my brother, for his sake.
Have you importuned him by any means?
A lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled me, was yet of many accounted beautiful.
Call him in.
Chid I for that at frugal Nature’s frame?
The sun will not be seen today.
O fortune, fortune!
I say, we will have no more marriages.
You must note beside, That we have tried the utmost of our friends, Our legions are brim-full, our cause is ripe.
What touches us ourself shall be last served.
Ah, soldier!
Tears seven times salt, Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
I will not trouble thee, my child.
By what rule, sir?
A segregation of the Turkish fleet.
He attends here in the forest on the duke your father.
Well then, I know thee.
I go.
Oh, heaven forgive me!
There the grown serpent lies.
A stoup of wine!
Ha!
No, that you shall not till you take her hand Before this friar and swear to marry her.
Very well, my lord.
There is no fear in him.
Two thousand ducats by the year of land!
Is that the naked fellow?
This purse of ducats I received from you, And Dromio my man did bring them me.
I met this man with my glove in his cap, and I have been as good as my word.
Thou liest, malignant thing!
Prove true, imagination, oh, prove true, That I, dear brother, be now ta'en for you!
Well, I will do it, though I take thee in the king’s company.
Tis but a peevish boy—yet he talks well— But what care I for words?
Yet I beseech you, If you think fit, or that it may be done, Give me advantage of some brief discourse With Desdemona alone.
My remembrance is very free and clear from any image of offense done to any man.
Ay.
Come, come away.
Very vilely in the morning, when he is sober, and most vilely in the afternoon, when he is drunk.
I know she is an irksome brawling scold.
But here comes Antony.
I learned it in England where indeed they are most potent in potting.
If you choose that wherein I am contained, Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized.
I myself.
What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness?
How “strangely”?
Nay, come, Kate, come.
Take away the lady.
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
They’ll mar my counterfeiting.
O most unhappy day!
My arm is sore.
Catesby, fly to the duke.
Dexterously, good madonna.
If so, my eyes are oftener washed than hers.
So, I am satisfied.
And that is Claudio.
If he distaste it, let him to our sister, Whose mind and mine I know in that are one, Not to be overruled.
They would not have you to stir forth today.
Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds In ranks and squadrons and right form of war, Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol.
This night—wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch, The lion and the belly-pinchèd wolf Keep their fur dry—unbonneted he runs, And bids what will take all.
Give me your present to one Master Bassanio, who indeed gives rare new liveries.
Our duties, and the pledge.
O hard condition, Twin-born with greatness, subject to the breath Of every fool, whose sense no more can feel But his own wringing.
If then they chanced to slack you, We could control them.
So do the kings of France unto this day, Howbeit they would hold up this Salic law To bar your Highness claiming from the female And rather choose to hide them in a net Than amply to imbar their crooked titles Usurped from you and your progenitors.
You are almost come to part almost a fray.
For two, and sound ones too.
To lend me arms and aid when I required them, The which you both denied.
Tis fit we understand them.
He was furnished like a hunter.
For though she’s as like this as a crab’s like an apple, yet I can tell what I can tell.
I was with Hercules and Cadmus once, When in a wood of Crete they bayed the bear With hounds of Sparta.
To be a well-favored man is the gift of fortune, but to write and read comes by nature.
Thus I do escape the sorrow Of Antony’s death.
I’ll run from thee and hide me in the brakes, And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts.
Let go thy hold when a great wheel runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck with following it. 
And time is at his period.
Yet would I knew That stroke would prove the worst!
We have cause to be glad that matters are so well digested.
Stay, I prithee, tell me what thou thinkest of me.
Say ’tis not so, a province I will give thee And make thy fortunes proud.
If I speak true!
She is thine own.— What, Ariel!
Mechanic slaves With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers shall Uplift us to the view.
She’s desperate.
Go with me, Silvius.
How now, daughter?
Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
Therefore then, thou gaudy gold, Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee.
O Hamlet, what a falling off was there!
My fan, Peter.
Are you my wife and will not call me “husband”?
Look what is done cannot be now amended.
For I can give his humor the true bent, And I will bring him to the Capitol.
Oh, that she knew she were!
Go, rascals, go, and fetch my supper in.
Oh, the world hath not a sweeter creature, she might lie by an emperor’s side and command him tasks.
And to that end we wished your Lordship here T' avoid the censures of the carping world.
Your constancy Hath left you unattended.
Pompey is strong at sea, And it appears he is beloved of those That only have feared Caesar.
Observe her, stand close.
I do beseech you, sir, trouble yourself no further.
Fly further off, my lord, fly further off.
Is this the madman?
I am very glad of it.
You say you do not know the lady’s mind.
This cannot anger him.
This fellow I remember Since once he played a farmer’s eldest son.
Prithee, be cheerful.
What, a feast, a feast?
Let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him.
And from hence I go To make these doubts all even.
I am their father’s mother.
I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn.
I am he that is so love-shaked.
Do thy worst.
We are their parents and original.
Mistress, we have.
Handkerchief—confessions—handkerchief!
Lorenzo certain, and my love indeed— For who love I so much?
I will hear that play.
That’s the next to do.
That’s a certain text.
Now lies he there, And none so poor to do him reverence.
And all for nothing— For Hecuba!
Roderigo!
This wretch hath part confessed his villainy.
I must needs tell thee all.
Thou hast not, cousin.
Liberty!
Tis too bad, too bad.
He that has a house to put ’s head in has a good headpiece.
Dispatch, I say, and find the forester.
The heavens do lour upon you for some ill. Move them no more by crossing their high will.
Marry, sir, in her buttocks.
Whilst you were here o'erwhelmèd with your grief— A passion most resulting such a man— Cassio came hither.
Swear by my sword Never to speak of this that you have heard.
Sword” is an oath, and oaths must have their course.
Look, where he comes.
I saw Othello’s visage in his mind, And to his honors and his valiant parts Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate.
The best?
We did, my lord, weeping and commenting Upon the sobbing deer.
Metellus Cimber?
You have an excellent armor, but let my horse have his due.
Alas, I am the mother of these griefs.
If that this simple syllogism will serve, so.
I would I had been there.
God’s will, I pray thee wish not one man more.
There be fools alive, iwis, Silvered o'er—and so was this.
And so I shall catch the fly, your cousin, in the latter end and she must be blind too.
Good madam, do.
Well, for your favor, sir, why, give God thanks, and make no boast of it, and for your writing and reading, let that appear when there is no need of such vanity.
Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
I met the youthful lord at Lawrence' cell, And gave him what becomèd love I might, Not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty.
O masters, if I were disposed to stir Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage, I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong— Who, you all know, are honorable men.
Romeo is banishèd.” There is no end, no limit, measure, bound, In that word’s death.
With one fool’s head I came to woo, But I go away with two.— Sweet, adieu.
I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered your letter.
Make those that do offend you suffer too.
And so, his knell is knolled.
What is ’t you say?
Verona, for a while I take my leave, To see my friends in Padua, but of all My best belovèd and approvèd friend, Hortensio.
Softly and swiftly, sir, for the priest is ready.
The gates of mercy shall be all shut up, And the fleshed soldier, rough and hard of heart, In liberty of bloody hand, shall range With conscience wide as hell, mowing like grass Your fresh fair virgins and your flow'ring infants.
So white, and such a traitor?
If thou say so, villain, Thou kill’st thy mistress.
Shylock, there’s thrice thy money offered thee.
Do not learn of him, Emilia, though he be thy husband.
Because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians, you’ll have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse.
Will you play upon this pipe?
I wish him joy of her.
My old brain is troubled.
We’ll whisper o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws.
What, have you lost your wits?
I have it ready for thee.
Sweet lady, you have given me life and living.
It was a vision fair and fortunate.
Unless you could teach me to forget a banished father, you must not learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure.
You shall not seal to such a bond for me!
The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.
I Beyond all limit of what else i' th' world Do love, prize, honor you.
Say, how grows it due?
I’m out of patience.
Thereby shall we shadow The numbers of our host and make discovery Err in report of us.
Welcome, Signior.
I would try, if I could cry “hem” and have him.
Have you sent to Bottom’s house?
There are no faces truer than those that are so washed.
Advise yourself.
Why, I am sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.
I’ll able 'em.
We did keep time, sir, in our catches.
Oh, do not wish one more!
Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral; And there they hull, expecting but the aid Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore.
Why, how now, monsieur?
Gifts that God gives.
In a false quarrel there is no true valor.
A stone-cutter or painter could not have made him so ill though they had been but two years o' th' trade.
Why, Rosalind!
Small joy have I in being England’s queen.
Go seek the traitor Gloucester.
But I am constant as the northern star, Of whose true-fixed and resting quality There is no fellow in the firmament.
This is no answer, thou unfeeling man, To excuse the current of thy cruelty.
I’ll warrant him for drowning though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an unstanched wench.
What are you?
She now shall be my sister, not my wife.
How lush and lusty the grass looks!
I will this night, In several hands, in at his windows throw, As if they came from several citizens, Writings all tending to the great opinion That Rome holds of his name, wherein obscurely Caesar’s ambition shall be glancèd at.
Where’s the king?
Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail.
I do desire we may be better strangers.
Well.
I will be more jealous of thee than a Barbary cock- pigeon over his hen, more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more newfangled than an ape, more giddy in my desires than a monkey.
Such wind as scatters young men through the world To seek their fortunes farther than at home, Where small experience grows.
What are you?
The competitors enter.
Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey-cock.
What did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now?
Do not laugh at me, For as I am a man, I think this lady To be my child Cordelia.
No, no, by God’s good grace, his son shall reign.
Ha!
Master, shall I be porter at the gate?
It is my day, my life.
Have an eye to Cinna.
His reason well I know.
No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess, Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover As ever sighed upon a midnight pillow.
Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help!
I owe you none till I receive the chain.
Hark how our steeds for present service neigh.
Away, go! 
I do beseech your Grace to pardon me, and withal Forbear your conference with the noble duke.
I do but beg a little changeling boy, To be my henchman.
No, believe me.
What a foolish duty call you this?
To whose hands You have sent the lunatic king.
Sweet Phoebe, pity me.
He is as full of valor as of kindness, Princely in both.
Go with me and see What I can show in this.
No, sir, it is legs and thighs.
Sirrah, naked fellow— Poor Tom’s a-cold.
Will he bring his power?
Why, what an ass am I!
Good signors both, when shall we laugh?
Well.
If we offend, it is with our good will.
There’s one at the gate.
Observe his construction of it.
Found you no displeasure in him by word or countenance?
What do you here?
But do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise, Nor th' insuppressive mettle of our spirits, To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath, when every drop of blood That every Roman bears—and nobly bears— Is guilty of a several bastardy If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath passed from him.
Oh, well-a-day, Lady!
Go bear it to the Centaur, where we host, And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
Oh, here’s a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad!
What, all my pretty chickens and their dam At one fell swoop?
Leave him to my displeasure.—Edmund, keep you our sister company.
No more, no more.
One woe doth tread upon another’s heel, So fast they follow.—Your sister’s drowned, Laertes.
Ere I ope his letter, I pray you tell me how my good friend doth.
Nay, this was but his dream.
Shall we their fond pageant see?
Why, so I do.
O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet!
Nay, faith, I’ll see the church a' your back, and then come back to my master’s as soon as I can.
He speaks not true.
If this prove A vision of the Island, one dear son Shall I twice lose.
I have no food for thee.
Here is more news.
And did not they Put on my brows this wreath of victory And bid me give it thee?
Thy mother’s name is ominous to children.
I’ll not meddle with it.
God quit you in His mercy.
I speak but as I find.
Nor I, assure thee, Regan.— Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father A childlike office.
Kate like the hazel-twig Is straight and slender and as brown in hue As hazel nuts, and sweeter than the kernels.
Murder!
When being not at your lodging to be found The Senate hath sent about three several guests To search you out.
That sir which serves and seeks for gain,  And follows but for form,  Will pack when it begins to rain  And leave thee in the storm.
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows.
My news I might have told hereafter.
And that were enough to hang us all.
Shall we sound him?
Decius Brutus loves thee not.
Nay, ’tis most certain, Iras.
Why, here’s no crab, and therefore look not sour.
What is your will?
He hath fought today As if a god, in hate of mankind, had Destroyed in such a shape.
Ay, go your ways, go your ways.
If you mark Alexander’s life well, Harry of Monmouth’s life is come after it indifferent well, for there is figures in all things.
If this uncouth forest yield anything savage, I will either be food for it or bring it for food to thee.
I did very well note him.
I pray you, dissuade him from her.
Thrice he walked By their oppressed and fear-surprisèd eyes Within his truncheon’s length, whilst they, distilled Almost to jelly with the act of fear, Stand dumb and speak not to him.
Their great guilt, Like poison given to work a great time after, Now 'gins to bite the spirits.
Is your man secret?
O, one too much by thee!
I think that thou art just and think thou art not.
Tonight in Harfleur will we be your guest; Tomorrow for the march are we addressed.
Nothing at all.
Did you?
Nym, thou hast spoke the right.
Well, you are gone both ways.
Trust not Trebonius.
Once more, what news?
No going then!
My husband say that she was false!
An he speak any thing against me, I’ll take him down, an he were lustier than he is, and twenty such Jacks.
The wiser, the waywarder.
Now, out of doubt Antipholus is mad; Else would he never so demean himself.
This morning, like the spirit of a youth That means to be of note, begins betimes.
If you tickle us, do we not laugh?
Now will I question Cassio of Bianca, A huswife that by selling her desires Buys herself bread and clothes.
Farewell, good Signior Love.
We are blest that Rome is rid of him.
And why, my Lady Wisdom?
Thus ornament is but the guilèd shore To a most dangerous sea, the beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty—in a word, The seeming truth which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest.
Hark you, Guildenstern, and you too—at each ear a hearer.
I commend your pains, And every one shall share i' th' gains.
Will you hear me, Roderigo?
Signior, is all your family within?
Therefore thou sleep’st so sound.
What’s the noise?
By heaven, that should be my handkerchief!
Good Sir Toby!
The honor is sacred which he talks on now, Supposing that I lacked it.—But, on, Caesar.
Where’s my son Edmund?
Why may not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it stopping a bunghole?
How came you thus recovered?
If he were dead, what would betide on me?
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee Doth much excuse the appertaining rage To such a greeting.
Which she shall purchase with still-lasting war.
Both sides are even.
Wilt thou rest damned?
Then the liars and swearers are fools, for there are liars and swearers enough to beat the honest men and hang up them.
How satisfied, my lord?
Neither, my lord.
Upon the crown o' th' cliff, what thing was that Which parted from you?
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten.
Come, come, dispatch.
When they shall see The face of Caesar, they are vanishèd.
None does offend—none, I say, none.
Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty.
How now?
There is not chastity enough in language, Without offense, to utter them.—Thus, pretty lady, I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
If that be all, masters, I hear no harm.
O Iras, Charmian!
For your part, To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony.
The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath And comes to his election presently.
Let it be written in eight and eight.
Why dost thou spit at me?
Oh, is ’t come to this?
Why then, we are awake.
Your gentleness shall force More than your force move us to gentleness.
In good time, sir, what’s that?
I shall devise something.
The curfew bell hath rung.
What do you mean?
She doth well.
Ay.
Sir, he may live.
If she do, he’ll smile and take ’t for a great favor.
Shall we not, Sir Andrew?
Enough.
Yes, by Saint Anne, and ginger shall be hot i' the mouth too.
I meant plain holy thistle.
This was the most unkindest cut of all.
Let go!
My words would bandy her to my sweet love, And his to me.
You know the character to be your brother’s?
And I for Ganymede.
Why, very well then.
You durst not so have tempted him.
And in assemblies too.
Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of valor.
She was here even now.
But I remember now I am in this earthly world, where to do harm Is often laudable, to do good sometime Accounted dangerous folly.
Come, be a man.
He lays it on.
He speaks nothing but madman.
What is the matter, my lord?
And where’s Cordelia?— Seest thou this object, Kent?
Oh, he is even in my mistress' case, Just in her case.
No epilogue, I pray you, for your play needs no excuse.
Draw, you rogue, for though it be night yet the moon shines.
Banquo, thy soul’s flight, If it find heaven, must find it out tonight.
The drink, the drink!
Take the fool away.
Your wife would give you little thanks for that If she were by to hear you make the offer.
I do not think it good.
Arise, dissembler.
Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing, Though, I confess, much like the character.
These growing feathers plucked from Caesar’s wing Will make him fly an ordinary pitch, Who else would soar above the view of men And keep us all in servile fearfulness.
No.
O you mighty gods,  This world I do renounce, and in your sights Shake patiently my great affliction off.
Take you, as ’twere, some distant knowledge of him, As thus
The early village cock Hath twice done salutation to the morn.
My soul is full of sorrow.
Wouldst thou have that Which thou esteem’st the ornament of life, And live a coward in thine own esteem, Letting “I dare not” wait upon “I would, ” Like the poor cat i' th' adage?
I’ll see thee hanged on Sunday first.
Not tonight, good Iago.
I will be hanged, if some eternal villain, Some busy and insinuating rogue, Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office, Have not devised this slander.
Oh, the difference of man and man!
She false with Cassio!
Do you intend to stay with me tonight?
I thank my stars I am happy.
Experience, manhood, honor, ne’er before Did violate so itself.
Ay, now am I in Arden, the more fool I.
Tis bootless to exclaim.
Here is more of us.
It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong.
Do I entice you?
She is indeed perfection.
Why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady?
All hell shall stir for this.
And laid the love juice on some true love’s sight.
Most noble Antony!
Let me embrace with old Vincentio, And wander we to see thy honest son, Who will of thy arrival be full joyous.
How if they will not?
Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent.
Were it not better, Because that I am more than common tall, That I did suit me all points like a man?
I have noted it well.
Adultery?
O, then it moved her?
My Lord Bassanio, let him have the ring.
Are you he?
Sure it is hers.
How now?
Thou wouldst make a good fool.
But what see I?
Come, blade, my breast imbrue.
I’ll tell thee ere thou ask it me again.
You shall have wine enough, my lord, anon.
Farewell!
It may be I shall raise you by and by On business to my brother Cassius.
And me too, good Lord!
Full of vexation come I with complaint Against my child, my daughter Hermia.— Stand forth, Demetrius.—My noble lord, This man hath my consent to marry her.— Stand forth, Lysander.—And my gracious duke, This man hath bewitched the bosom of my child.— Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rhymes, And interchanged love tokens with my child.
Where’s my fool, ho?
Nobody.
I do remember.
Dear sir, forbear!
This speech of yours hath moved me, And shall perchance do good.
He meant he did me none; the more my spite.
A monster, a very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian footboy or a gentleman’s lackey.
It is a good divine that follows his own instructions.
Give me thy hand.
Let her live To join our kingdoms and our hearts, and never Fly off our loves again!
Leave her to heaven And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge To prick and sting her.
I will assume thy part in some disguise And tell fair Hero I am Claudio, And in her bosom I’ll unclasp my heart And take her hearing prisoner with the force And strong encounter of my amorous tale.
She is not, madam.
Do, if it will not stand.
I must go in.
The younger rises when the old doth fall.
I do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not Out three years old.
How now?
But if all aim but this be leveled false, The supposition of the lady’s death Will quench the wonder of her infamy.
You tremble and look pale.
O, for my beads!
Shall I entreat a word?
Be the Jacks fair within, the Jills fair without, the carpets laid, and everything in order?
Come, we’ll to sleep.
I here do give thee that with all my heart Which, but thou hast already, with all my heart I would keep from thee.
Weary sev'nnights nine times nine Shall he dwindle, peak and pine.
Even for that I thank you.
Hath Leonato any son, my lord?
Lie—   With her?
Your sword upon a woman?
This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.
But I have heard him oft maintain it to be fit that, sons at perfect age and fathers declined, the father should be as ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
What’s the boy Malcolm?
No man must know.” What follows?
Sinful Macduff, They were all struck for thee!
You have a daughter called Elizabeth, Virtuous and fair, royal and gracious.
I hate a drunken rogue. 
I will omit no opportunity That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
Do what you will, dishonor shall be humor.
It is a fault that springeth from your eye.
Well, peace be with you.
A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers.
I say “thy husband”—dost understand the word?
What is amiss?
A most unhappy one.
A noble ship of Venice Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance On most part of their fleet.
Good madam, stay a while.
He can report, As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt The newest state.
It was ourself thou didst abuse.
Looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled?
O lady, speak again!
Love give me strength, and strength shall help afford.
Why, then ’tis time to arm and give direction.
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh!
O dear father, It is thy business that I go about.
Never make denial.
You stand.
I am glad to see you well.— Horatio?
O, yet defend me, friends.
From this time Such I account thy love.
I will preach to thee.
If you be not mad, be gone.
Romeo is coming.
And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.
Wherefore to Dover, sir?
But how hath she received his love?
I warrant it will.
You come with letters against the king and take Vanity the puppet’s part against the royalty of her father.
Hers you are.
Or what are you?
Eight score eight hours?
You gentle Romans—     Peace, ho!
That’s my fear.
Upon my life, by some device or other The villain is o'erraught of all my money.
What means this shouting?
Welcome hither.
Ah, cut my lace asunder, That my pent heart may have some scope to beat, Or else I swoon with this dead-killing news!
First let me talk with this philosopher.—  
Alack, alack the day!
Or docks, or mallows.
At a word, I am not.
I did, my lord.
Hear, Nature, hear, dear goddess, hear!
Our troops set forth tomorrow.
His ceremonies laid by, in his nakedness he appears but a man, and though his affections are higher mounted than ours, yet when they stoop, they stoop with the like wing.
I hope now thou art not drowned.
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
Well, I will undertake it.
But I do think it is their husbands' faults If wives do fall.
Friends am I with you all and love you all Upon this hope
Let him come when he will, I will deny thee nothing.
No more, cousin.
True, madam.
Let me but meet you ladies one hour hence, And I’ll salute your Grace of York as mother And reverend looker-on, of two fair queens.
I partly guess, for I have loved ere now.
Nothing?
Out, loathèd medicine!
Therefore give me no counsel.
Now, Antony, our hopes are answerèd.
Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds.
If I think so, I think the same of you.
What masque, what music?
And we will mend thy wages.
Look, Lucius, here’s the book I sought for so.
Men may sleep, and they may have their throats about them at that time, and some say knives have edges.
General, be advised, He comes to bad intent.
Know of your youth.
But since it is as it is, mend it for your own good.
Yes, other men have ill luck too.
Get you to bed again.
Shame of ladies, sisters!
And unrespective boys.
Caesar himself has work, and our oppression Exceeds what we expected.
The dropsy drown this fool!
A mighty strength they carry.
My charity is outrage, life my shame, And in that shame still live my sorrows' rage.
Talk you of young Master Launcelot?
The little strength that I have, I would it were with you.
I fly, Biondello.
I’ll leave you.
Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a glass, That I may see my shadow as I pass.
Give me Bianca for my patrimony.
Fa, sol, la, mi. 
Nay, take my life and all.
Look, here it is.
What is his name?
There be some such, no question.
This is well.
She is a royal princess.
Go, And with your speediest bring us what she says And how you find of her.
But, sir, here comes your boy.
So do not I.
Am I your man?
Wo, ha, ho!
My father dead, my fortune lives for me.
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damned, Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell, Be thy intents wicked or charitable, Thou comest in such a questionable shape That I will speak to thee.
Tis safer to be that which we destroy Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
Go, keep us company, And we shall make full satisfaction.— Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail Of you, my sons, and till this present hour My heavy burden ne'er deliverèd.— The Duke, my husband, and my children both, And you, the calendars of their nativity, Go to a gossips' feast, and go with me.
For but a month ago I went from hence, And then ’twas fresh in murmur—as, you know, What great ones do the less will prattle of— That he did seek the love of fair Olivia.
For taking one’s part that’s out of favor.
The higher Nilus swells The more it promises.
But, for mine own part, it was Greek to me.
Mark the music.
And wished to see thee cross-gartered.” Cross-gartered?
Away with him!
He followed you.
Go with me to the vault.
What wert thou if the King of Naples heard thee?
But first I will release the fairy queen.
I shall break The cause of our expedience to the Queen And get her leave to part.
Tell him, when that our princely father York Blessed his three sons with his victorious arm, He little thought of this divided friendship.
My father had a daughter loved a man As it might be, perhaps, were I a woman, I should your lordship.
I will come again.
There attend my coming.
Why no, boy.
Some grief shows much of love, But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
Nay, I prithee stay a little.
That’s fouler.
How if fair and foolish?
He hath left them you And to your heirs forever—common pleasures, To walk abroad and recreate yourselves.
Come.
Did you see Master Lorenzo?
Get thee away.
They stand and would have parley.
What is the matter?
There’s a great abatement of kindness appears as well in the general dependants as in the duke himself also, and your daughter.
Not that, I hope, which you received of me.
Therefore, Lord Constable, haste on Montjoy And let him say to England that we send To know what willing ransom he will give.
Stand fast, Titinius.
Macbeth!
We’ll answer.
Thieves!
I like him very well.
Alack, what heinous sin is it in me To be ashamed to be my father’s child!
We now are near his cell.
Do it.
O slanderous world!
Thou fond mad man, hear me a little speak.
These times of woe afford no time to woo.
Well contented.
Wilt thou destroy him then? 
Where we are, There’s daggers in men’s smiles.
Thou art to die.
Where the devil should he learn our language?
So.
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
Tomorrow with your earliest Let me have speech with you.— Come, my dear love, The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue
Yonder they lie, the poor old man their father making such pitiful dole over them that all the beholders take his part with weeping.
I am ready.
Does she so?
Is my father well?
Die for adultery?
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug, Sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall.
 I don’t profit from the flocks I tend.
I have as much of my father in me as you, albeit, I confess, your coming before me is nearer to his reverence. 
If there be any good thing to be done That may to thee do ease and grace to me, Speak to me.
I your commission will forthwith dispatch, And he to England shall along with you.
By Him that raised me to this careful height From that contented hap which I enjoyed, I never did incense his majesty Against the duke of Clarence, but have been An earnest advocate to plead for him.
It shall to the barber’s, with your beard.—Prithee, say on.
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
Within these three days let me hear thee say That Cassio’s not alive.
You, as your business and desire shall point you— For every man has business and desire, Such as it is—and for my own poor part, Look you, I’ll go pray.
Lie not a night from home.
My services which I have done the signiory Shall out-tongue his complaints.
I had a Richard too, and thou did’st kill him; I had a Rutland too; thou holp’st to kill him.
Hold you, there is a groat to heal your pate.
I neither know it nor can learn of him.
A dire induction am I witness to, And will to France, hoping the consequence Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
I do beseech you.
Octavius, then take him to follow thee, That did the latest service to my master.
Let me deal in this.
Before my body I throw my warlike shield.
I fear it, I promise you.
Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there, That kills and pains not?
It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will.
Keep thy word.
Then thus
Why, such is love’s transgression.
My servant, sir!
Good morrow, General.
As I have life and honor, there shall he sit till noon.
Is this true?
When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept.
My lord?  
Nay, let’s follow him.
How comes that?
The sea, with such a storm as his bare head In hell-black night endured, would have buoyed up, And quenched the stellèd fires.
Then weigh what loss your honor may sustain If with too credent ear you list his songs, Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open To his unmastered importunity.
 either too much at once or none at all.
Are you acquainted with the difference That holds this present question in the court?
By Isis, I will give thee bloody teeth If thou with Caesar paragon again My man of men.
I have seen her die twenty times upon far poorer moment.
O heaven, O earth, bear witness to this sound And crown what I profess with kind event
Here is a friar that trembles, sighs and weeps.
A good swift simile, but something currish.
Rebellious dead, rise never till the wood Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath To time and mortal custom.
No.
Then, by myself—      Thyself is self-misused.
Say from whence You owe this strange intelligence, or why Upon this blasted heath you stop our way With such prophetic greeting.
Beat me?
But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter— Or rather a disease that’s in my flesh, Which I must needs call mine.
Hang him, foul collier!
How now, my sweet Bianca!
We’ll to th’ river.
No, I do not know you, nor I am not sent to you by my lady, to bid you come speak with her, nor your name is not Master Cesario, nor this is not my nose neither.
Ay, to the proof, as mountains are for winds, That shakes not, though they blow perpetually.
Content thee, gentle coz.
Withdraw thee, wretched Margaret.
When Caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me.
Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty, For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo The means of weakness and debility.
Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.
We cannot call her winds and waters sighs and tears.
Come you to make confession to this Father?
It came even from the heart of—oh, she’s dead!
All offices are open, and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven.
I promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now.
A holy day shall this be kept hereafter.
Saw you the weird sisters?
Send for the man and ask him.
Help, help, O, help!
It is.
Ay, my lord.
Hold, for your lives!
You have been factious one against the other.— Wife, love Lord Hastings.
Answer me like men.
There’s matter in ’t indeed, if he be angry.
Why do people love you?
We would so, and then go a-batfowling.
Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
Be ’t as our gods will have ’t.
Abide within.
Hold off thy hand.
Let none presume To wear an undeservèd dignity.
Your Grace attended to their sugared words But looked not on the poison of their hearts.
Is not tomorrow, boy, the ides of March?
But I perceive in you so excellent a touch of modesty that you will not extort from me what I am willing to keep in.
Maud, Bridget, Marian, Ciceley, Gillian, Ginn!
 tell them that when my mother became pregnant with the insatiable Edward, my noble father was fighting in France.
He says his name’s Poor Tom.
But sup them well and look unto them all.
You may as well say, that’s a valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion.
They have their exits and their entrances, And one man in his time plays many parts, His acts being seven ages.
Ha, banishment!
One kiss, and I’ll descend.
Begone.
Speak yet again.
Oh, a good wish upon you.
Who comes here?
Hold, there is forty ducats.
Those that are good manners at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the behavior of the country is most mockable at the court.
Not life, but love in death.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
What was th' impediment that broke this off?
Here comes the Countess.
The one is too like an image and says nothing, and the other too like my lady’s eldest son, evermore tattling.
Most wonderful!
Nor I know not Where I did lodge last night.
Bring him, dead or living, Within this twelvemonth or turn thou no more To seek a living in our territory.
Go waken Juliet.
Why, a horse.
I rather will subject me to the malice Of a diverted blood and bloody brother.
Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come.
I pray you, what thinks he of our estate?
Now, for my life, she’s wandering to the Tower, On pure heart’s love, to greet the tender prince.— Daughter, well met.
Are you a god?
He is the general challenger.
They say he has been fencer to the Sophy.
Now, infidel, I have you on the hip.
Not in the legions Of horrid hell can come a devil more damned In evils to top Macbeth.
Happy, in that we are not overhappy.
Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast killed Mine innocent child?
And shall our quick blood, spirited with wine, Seem frosty?
Ay me, what news?
I will, and know her mind early tomorrow.
Give me that boy and I will go with thee.
If it be not for some purpose of import, Give ’t me again.
Yes, madam, he was of that consort.
Then will two at once woo one.
I have it, Tranio!
I know your favor well, Though now you have no sea-cap on your head.— Take him away.
Will you dispatch us here under this tree, or shall we go with you to your chapel?
Emilia, run you to the citadel And tell my lord and lady what hath happed.— Will you go on afore?
But this good comfort bring I to your Highness
Be it as you shall privately determine, Either for her stay or going.
She is not worth thee, then.
From both, my lord.
I have, my lord.
You might have saved me my pains to have taken it away yourself.
You break jests as braggarts do their blades, which, God be thanked, hurt not.—My lord, for your many courtesies I thank you.
Friends, come hither.
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now To murder, murder our solemnity?
O perjured woman!
Hold, sir, or I’ll throw your dagger o'er the house.
Burn!
At seventeen years, many their fortunes seek, But at fourscore, it is too late a week.
Come, go we to the king.
Out on thee, seeming!
O notable strumpet!
What was he, sad or merry?
Yes, by heaven!
Never excuse—for when the players are all dead, there needs none to be blamed.
Now Edmund, where’s the villain?
Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands.
Dear sovereign, hear me speak.
When last I was at Exeter, The mayor in courtesy showed me the castle And called it Rougemont, at which name I started, Because a bard of Ireland told me once I should not live long after I saw Richmond.
As I did stand my watch upon the hill, I looked toward Birnam, and anon methought The wood began to move.
Command him away.
My deeds upon my head.
I am glad to see you mad.
His captain’s heart, Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst The buckles on his breast, reneges all temper And is become the bellows and the fan To cool a gypsy’s lust.
Oh, the people in the street cry “Romeo,” Some “Juliet,” and some “Paris,” and all run With open outcry toward our monument.
Chopped logic!
Madam, he’s well.
Is it his use?
Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be cony-catched in this business.
Ay, noble lord.
Money by me!
What’s the matter?
Thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life.
Oh, I have read it.
Retire we to our chamber.
Cassius, be constant.
I bade the rascal knock upon your gate And could not get him for my heart to do it.
I fear me both are false.
Here is the money.
By two o'clock I will be with thee again.
Tis exactly valued, Not petty things admitted.
Then plainly to her tell my loving tale.
He breathes, my lord.
Stand close and list him.
Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here!
Why then I think Cassio’s an honest man.
Those his goodly eyes, That o’er the files and musters of the war Have glowed like plated Mars, now bend, now turn The office and devotion of their view Upon a tawny front.
Tis certain, every man that dies ill, the ill upon his own head.
Thou shalt not from this grove Till I torment thee for this injury.— My gentle Puck, come hither.
Marry, now I let go your hand, I am barren.
Faith, stay here this night.
Old I do wax, and from my weary limbs Honor is cudgeled.
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round”— I pray you, tell me what you meant by that.
Here I stand, your slave— A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man.
O Antony, Thou mine of bounty, how wouldst thou have paid My better service, when my turpitude Thou dost so crown with gold!
Have you no more to say?
All but Metellus Cimber, and he’s gone To seek you at your house.
Well, officer, arrest him at my suit.
Play the men.
Wast ever in court, shepherd?
Let me see—what think you of falling in love?
Well, happiness to their sheets!
We have not spoke us yet of torchbearers.
Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
You advise me well.
Silenced with that, In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day, He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks, Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make, Strange images of death.
Some such squire he was That turned your wit the seamy side without And made you to suspect me with the Moor.
Dead?
Bid Gloucester think of this, and he will weep.
Ha?
Worthily spoken, Maecenas.
You wrong me more, sir, in denying it.
I can as well be hanged as tell the manner of it.
Stoop, Romans, stoop, And let us bathe our hands in Caesar’s blood Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords.
He always loved our sister most, and with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off appears too grossly. 
You will never run mad, niece.
Here’s our chief guest.
You are a merry man, sir.
With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear, And draw her home with music.
His neigh is like the bidding of a monarch, and his countenance enforces homage.
A maiden never bold, Of spirit so still and quiet that her motion Blushed at herself.
Oh, sweet England!
Is ’t so, my lords of England?
What, my lord?
Why, ay.
That will I, for I must bear answer back How you excuse my brother, Rosalind.
Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?
And I another.
I have used it, nuncle, ever since thou madest thy daughters thy mothers.
 as soon as we sent those Irish soldiers running for cover, the Norwegian king saw his chance to attack us with fresh troops and shiny weapons.
Beguiled, divorcèd, wrongèd, spited, slain!
Charmian!
trick up with new-tuned oaths; and what a beard of the general’s cut and a horrid suit of the camp will do among foaming bottles and ale-washed wits is wonderful to be thought on.
For certain, sir, he is not.
Take up her bed And bear her women from the monument.
I am locked in one of them.
It shall be called “Bottom’s Dream” because it hath no bottom.
Sir, good success.
Yea, and the best person too.
Come, come, you are a fool, And turned into the extremity of love.
The time to come.
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them, To make me die with a restorative.
No wonder, sir, But certainly a maid.
A wreck past hope he was.
For mine own part, I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
Was never widow had so dear a loss.
The like is on her arm.
And I remember the kissing of her batler, and the cow’s dugs that her pretty chopped hands had milked.
No, as I shall be saved.
That’s my office.
This is the fairy land.
It did always seem so to us.
That thou dost love my daughter from thy soul.
Then burst his mighty heart, And, in his mantle muffling up his face, Even at the base of Pompey’s statue, Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.
His father was called Philip of Macedon, as I take it.
Tis just.
I may not, madam.
How far into the morning is it, lords?
But now in the division of the kingdom, it appears not which of the dukes he values most, for equalities are so weighed that curiosity in neither can make choice of either’s moiety.
For that he dares us to ’t.
O, what men dare do!
Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing?
He hath brought many captives home to Rome Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill.
The will, the will!
But out of question, ’tis Maria’s hand.
Your reasons are too shallow and too quick.
Her only fault, and that is faults enough, Is that she is intolerable curst, And shrewd and froward, so beyond all measure That, were my state far worser than it is, I would not wed her for a mine of gold.
Thou know’st the first time that we smell the air We wawl and cry.
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose— Help me away, dear Charmian!
Go, go.
Peace!
I am qualmish at the smell of leek.
Canst thou, when thou command’st the beggar’s knee, Command the health of it?
But thou wouldst not think how ill all’s here about my heart.
If I could add a lie unto a fault I would deny it.
Fear me not.
Where shall we go?
Now he’ll outstare the lightning.
You swore to me when I did give it you That you would wear it till your hour of death, And that it should lie with you in your grave.
Added to these, Of knights, esquires, and gallant gentlemen, Eight thousand and four hundred, of the which, Five hundred were but yesterday dubbed knights.
Make your best use of this.
Disloyal?
We’ll hear him what he says.
It is not for you.
Go.
Up to the breach, you dogs!
My gracious sovereign.
Is Brutus sick?
Why, I will see thee at Philippi, then.
Commend me to thy lady, And bid her hasten all the house to bed, Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto.
He’s not thy kinsman.
Still it cried, “Sleep no more!” to all the house.
Wife!
False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse, Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
How but well, sir?
Look how our partner’s rapt.
That death’s unnatural that kills for loving.
One Hero died defiled, but I do live, And surely as I live, I am a maid.
But fare you well.
No, nor I neither, but most wonderful that she should so dote on Signor Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor.
Stephano is my name, and I bring word My mistress will before the break of day Be here at Belmont.
Ay, and for that thou diest.
He hath not touched you yet.
I do not know.
Die and be damned, and  It is well.
Here, Signior Tranio, This bird you aimed at, though you hit her not.— Therefore a health to all that shot and missed.
I’ll answer that.
She told her, while she kept it 'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father Entirely to her love, but if she lost it Or made gift of it, my father’s eye Should hold her loathèd and his spirits should hunt After new fancies.
Saddle my horses.
My master is grown quarrelsome.
Twas I that killed her.
Talk not to me, for I’ll not speak a word.
Come now, what masques, what dances shall we have To wear away this long age of three hours Between our after-supper and bedtime?
No, it is not possible you should love the enemy of France, Kate.
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.
What proof shall I make of that?
I have a daughter—have while she is mine— Who in her duty and obedience, mark, Hath given me this.
Tis gone.
What “quality”?
And wast thou fain, poor father, To hovel thee with swine and rogues forlorn In short and musty straw?
No, my good lord.
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live.
Most constantly.
Death, that hath sucked the honey of thy breath, Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty.
In sooth, I know not why I am so sad.
Good morrow to this fair assembly.
How?
And then, as we have ta'en the sacrament, We will unite the white rose and the red.
Who’s there?
I dreamt there was an emperor Antony.
How have you slept, my lord?
If that may be then all is well.
Here, master.
That she is worthy, I know.
But hush, no more.
The fearful passage of their death-marked love And the continuance of their parents' rage, Which, but their children’s end, naught could remove, Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage— The which, if you with patient ears attend, What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
Hast thou met with him?
Go you with me and I will use your skill.— Good cousin, have a care this busy time.
Now sit we close about this taper here And call in question our necessities.
Toward Peloponnesus are they fled.
Good morrow, Benedick.
As long as hell and Richard likes of it.
But it was—as I received it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in the top of mine—an excellent play, well digested in the scenes, set down with as much modesty as cunning. 
You hear how he importunes me.
I grant you, friends, if you should fright the ladies out of their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us.
Signior Fabian, stay you by this gentleman till my return.
What a night’s this!
Under what captain serve you?
I have a soul of lead So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
I hope so, Lepidus.
Know, my hearts, I hope well of tomorrow, and will lead you Where rather I’ll expect victorious life Than death and honor.
Hence, and stand aloof.
And I do not doubt but to hear them say, “It is a sweet comedy.” No more words.
Neither my husband nor the slave returned That in such haste I sent to seek his master?
A marvelous witty fellow, I assure you, but I will go about with him.—Come you hither, sirrah, a word in your ear.
Fail not our feast.
Statilius showed the torchlight but, my lord, He came not back.
To her, widow!
What drink’st thou oft, instead of homage sweet, But poisoned flattery?
No more amazement.
What should such fellows as I do crawling between earth and heaven?
Let four captains Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage, For he was likely, had he been put on, To have proved most royally.
He did, my gracious lord, begin that place, Which, since, succeeding ages have re-edified.
My brother’s servants Were then my fellows.
I am to pray you not to strain my speech To grosser issues nor to larger reach Than to suspicion.
Well, go thy way.
With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.
I cannot tell.
Oh, that that earth, which kept the world in awe, Should patch a wall t' expel the winter’s flaw!
He’ll fright you up, i' faith.
I gave you all— And in good time you gave it.
Let it work, For ’tis the sport to have the engineer Hoist with his own petard.
Then I will give you the serving creature.
Is thy name William?
Not on thy sole, but on thy soul, harsh Jew, Thou makest thy knife keen.
Welcome to Rome.
So are you, princes English, every one.
Live a little, comfort a little, cheer thyself a little.
Soft, no haste.
What’s the matter, think you?
He’ll be hanged yet, though every drop of water swear against it and gape at widest to glut him.
Faith, some certain dregs of conscience are yet within me.
Her hedges, even-pleached, Like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair, Put forth disordered twigs.
If ever thou come to me and say, after tomorrow, “This is my glove,” by this hand I will take thee a box on the ear.
Remember thee!
How doth my lady?
O my Christian ducats!
These be good humors.
If it will not be, I’ll leave you.
O this learning, what a thing it is!
Come, I’ll dispose of thee Among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
Tis a vile thing to die, my gracious lord, When men are unprepared and look not for it.
God will revenge it, whom I will importune With earnest prayers, all to that effect.
Nine or ten times I had thought t' have yerked him here under the ribs.
Sir, you speak nobly.
And you, sir.
Base Trojan, thou shalt die.
Thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords In our own proper entrails.
The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England.
Ay, ay.
I take it much unkindly That thou, Iago, who hast had my purse As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
What horrible fancy’s this?
Why, here is the note of the fashion to testify.
Faith, he tonight hath boarded a land carrack.
Where is he?
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
The second cock hath crowed.
Tis too narrow for your mind.
He did receive his letters and is coming.
Ay, marry, is ’t.
Dear Kate, you and I cannot be confined within the weak list of a country’s fashion.
Now, beshrew my father’s ambition!
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow student.
Away!
Where’s Dolabella, To second Proculeius?
There’s something in ’t That is deceivable.
A spirit I am indeed, But am in that dimension grossly clad Which from the womb I did participate.
Nay, that’s certain.
I am not made of stones, But penetrable to your kind entreaties, Albeit against my conscience and my soul.
Here I kneel
Let every eye nogetiate for itself And trust no agent, for beauty is a witch Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
Now know you, Casca, I have moved already Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans To undergo with me an enterprise Of honorable-dangerous consequence.
And for their sake, In your fair minds let this acceptance take.
We must not.
Nothing.
Norfolk, we must have knocks, ha, must we not?
Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head.
And she’s obedient, as you say, obedient, Very obedient.—Proceed you in your tears.— Concerning this, sir—Oh, well-painted passion!— I am commanded home.—Get you away, I’ll send for you anon.—Sir, I obey the mandate And will return to Venice.—Hence, avaunt!
Here lie I down and measure out my grave.
I heard thee say even now thou lik’st not that When Cassio left my wife.
By the apostle Paul, shadows tonight Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers Armed in proof and led by shallow Richmond.
Proceed.
Love’s heralds should be thoughts, Which ten times faster glide than the sun’s beams, Driving back shadows over louring hills.
She dies for ’t.—Eros, ho!
I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas.
My daughter tells us all.
O God of battles, steel my soldiers' hearts.
Pyramus draws near the wall.
Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile.
Yea, and paid me richly for the practice of it.
Fear you the boar, and go so unprovided?
Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest— For Brutus is an honorable man; So are they all, all honorable men— Come I to speak in Caesar’s funeral.
How hast thou the heart, Being a divine, a ghostly confessor, A sin-absolver, and my friend professed, To mangle me with that word “banishèd”?
And stay, good Nurse.
There’s knocking at the gate.
He’ll make your Paris Louvre shake for it, Were it the mistress court of mighty Europe.
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth, Contagious blastments are most imminent.
I’ll make a sop o' th' moonshine of you.
Proceed, Moon.
Oh, let their bodies follow, my dear liege, With blood and sword and fire to win your right, In aid whereof we of the spiritualty Will raise your Highness such a mighty sum As never did the clergy at one time Bring in to any of your ancestors.
Set your heart at rest.
For that goes hard.
Good sir, be a man, Think every bearded fellow that’s but yoked May draw with you.
And then he offered it the third time.
This is a sleepy tune.
Were never orphans had so dear a loss.
Then leave him out.
We think not so, my lord.
There’s mine.
The king has killed his heart.
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
Then I defy you, stars!
By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
Wherefore?
This avarice Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been The sword of our slain kings.
For, by this light of heaven, I know not how I lost him.
Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool To give thee all and in his waning age Set foot under thy table.
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty.
I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown (yet ’twas not a crown neither, ’twas one of these coronets) and, as I told you, he put it by once—but, for all that, to my thinking, he would fain have had it.
He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear His hopes 'bove wisdom, grace, and fear.
Give us kind keepers, heavens!
But we will draw the curtain and show you the picture.
He will to his Egyptian dish again.
If that will not suffice, I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er, On forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart.
O ill-starred wench, Pale as thy smock!
You are deceived.
This is the fruits of whoring.
Why, so.
But then the mind much sufferance doth o'erskip When grief hath mates and bearing fellowship.
Though it pass your patience and mine to endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good fellows in the world, an a man could light on them, would take her with all faults, and money enough.
You shall hear more.
Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this league With thy embracements to my wife’s allies And make me happy in your unity.
Out, treacherous villain!
How low am I, thou painted maypole?
Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.
Awake remembrance of these valiant dead And with your puissant arm renew their feats.
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol?
An please your Worship, Brakenbury, You may partake of anything we say.
By heaven, it is as proper to our age To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions As it is common for the younger sort To lack discretion.
In love?
I would I were at home.
Be you his eunuch, and your mute I’ll be.
He is not yet arrived.
You peers, continue this united league.
Your royal father’s murdered.
Nay, but this dotage of our general’s O’erflows the measure.
Sweet remembrancer!
Let us to the field.
In the corrupted currents of this world Offense’s gilded hand may shove by justice, And oft ’tis seen the wicked prize itself Buys out the law.
With much, much more dismay I view the fight than thou that makest the fray.
Speak, is ’t out o' th' way?
Fie, fie on all tired jades, on all mad masters, and all foul ways!
I thank you, madam.
The  I thank you.
Where have I been?
Methinks it is like a weasel.
Thy Juliet is alive, For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead— There art thou happy.
Do you love me?
I did never know so full a voice issue from so empty a heart.
I have done my work ill, friends.
Oh, how I long to have some chat with her!
This the Dauphin speaks.
If it be a suit from the count, I am sick, or not at home.
Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
Let every man be master of his time Till seven at night.
No, Caesar hath it not.
I am very glad to see you, signior.
A sibyl, that had numbered in the world The sun to course two hundred compasses, In her prophetic fury sewed the work.
Should be”—should buzz!
A touch, a touch, I do confess ’t.
The sweetest sleep and fairest-boding dreams That ever entered in a drowsy head Have I since your departure had, my lords.
Take him up gently, and to bed with him, And each one to his office when he wakes.
He’s speaking now, Or murmuring “Where’s my serpent of old Nile?” For so he calls me.
If you can, your reason?
Gone she is.
I am constant to my purpose.
He wore his beaver up.
Oh peace, Prince Dauphin!
Not for all this land Would I be guilty of so deep a sin.
Then pardon him, sweet father, for my sake.
We are, my lord, and come to have the warrant That we may be admitted where he is.
I’ll have grounds More relative than this.
Be thou familiar but by no means vulgar.
To do thus I learned of thee.
Come, some music!
That’s more to me than my wetting.
I must talk a word with you.
You shall not in your funeral speech blame us, But speak all good you can devise of Caesar, And say you do ’t by our permission.
They know By th’ height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth Or foison follow.
Up, my lords.
And for my name of George begins with  It follows in his thought that I am he.
Now, by this hand, I swear, I scorn the term, Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.
I am a fool To weep at what I am glad of.
By what?
I feared he did but trifle And meant to wreck thee.
Tis true.
Now they believe it and withal whet me To be revenged on Rivers, Dorset, Grey; But then I sigh and, with a piece of scripture, Tell them that God bids us do good for evil; And thus I clothe my naked villainy With odd old ends stolen out of Holy Writ, And seem a saint when most I play the devil.
My mistress with a monster is in love.
Peace be with Burgundy.
I will not go today, and ere I do It shall be what o'clock I say it is.  
Will you yield and this avoid Or, guilty in defense, be thus destroyed?
And died so?
My lord.
Who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting?
Hear me, good friends—
He is sure possessed, madam.
Excellent good.
Thou troublest me; I am not in the vein.
It shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did.
The gain I seek is quiet in the match.
We are resolved, my lord.
Believe me, sir, had I such venture forth, The better part of my affections would Be with my hopes abroad.
Speak.
Canst thou so daff me?
It’s nine o'clock.
Of that there’s none, or little.
Muffle me, night, awhile.
Your Worship is deceived.
 will Banquo’s sons ever reign in this kingdom?
I will read it.— How much unlike art thou to Portia!
I know,” quoth he, “no house, no wife, no mistress.” So that my errand, due unto my tongue, I thank him, I bare home upon my shoulders, For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.
To the vales, And hold our best advantage.
They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves For a fair victory.
They are so still, Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world, Art turned the greatest liar.
He’s no standard.
Romeo!
I thank thee, Ariel.
Madam, undress you and come now to bed.
They see and smell And have their palates both for sweet and sour, As husbands have.
No, not a whit.
Goats and monkeys!
Fulvia is dead.
Hold, there’s expenses for thee.
Sir, you and I must part, but that’s not it.
And I serve the fairy queen  To dew her orbs upon the green.
You should be ruled and led By some discretion that discerns your state Better than you yourself.
What a strange drowsiness possesses them!
You know not how to choose a man.
Pleaseth your Grace To appoint some of your council presently To sit with us once more with better heed To resurvey them, we will suddenly Pass our accept and peremptory answer.
Sir, have pity, I’ll be his surety.
 I did get this ring from her.
Of your complexion.
Not shine today?
Comes his army on?
Will you withdraw?
They were traitors!
Good Lord!
Before you can say “Come” and “Go,” And breathe twice and cry “So, so!” Each one, tripping on his toe,
With her, on her, what you will.
I have neither the scholar’s melancholy, which is emulation; nor the musician’s, which is fantastical; nor the courtier’s, which is proud; nor the soldier’s, which is ambitious; nor the lawyer’s, which is politic; nor the lady’s, which is nice; nor the lover’s, which is all these, but it is a melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples, extracted from many objects, and indeed the sundry contemplation of my travels, in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous sadness. 
Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all; My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours.
No, Cassius, no.
Cry mercy, lords and watchful gentlemen, That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here.
I thank you, valiant Cassio.
Now, sir, what make you here?
So thou mayst say the king lies by a beggar if a beggar dwell near him, or the church stands by thy tabor, if thy tabor stand by the church.
Had I great Juno’s power, The strong-winged Mercury should fetch thee up And set thee by Jove’s side.
No, faith, lords and great men will not let me.
But that they call “compliment” is like th' encounter of two dog- apes.
What effects, my lord?
O brave new world, That has such people in ’t!
Wash they his wounds with tears?
Leave me, I say.
It is my arm.
Farewell, sweet lord, and sister.
Tell him I am prompt To lay my crown at ’s feet, and there to kneel.
Sweet lady, ho, ho.
How poor are they that have not patience!
Fare you well.
Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?
Let our best heads Know that tomorrow the last of many battles We mean to fight.
As birds do, Mother.
The Jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones and all, Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood.
We talk with goblins, owls, and sprites
Come, come.
Brutus hath rived my heart.
Nor you, as we are, loyal.
Marry, sir, for this something that you gave me for nothing.
Thy wild acts denote The unreasonable fury of a beast.
I will go lose myself And wander up and down to view the city.
Hide it in smiles and affability.
Set him before me.
Think, when we talk of horses, that you see them Printing their proud hoofs i' th' receiving earth, For ’tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings, Carry them here and there, jumping o'er times,
Would ’twere done.
If in Naples I should report this now, would they believe me?
Well, let that rest.
All is but toys.
I take ’t ’tis later, sir.
Thou hast done a deed— I care not for thy sword, I’ll make thee known
What’s the matter?
Say, “the brave Antony.”                                                 The valiant Caesar!
Have you a mind to sink?
I do believe that these applauses are For some new honors that are heaped on Caesar.
Upon record, my gracious lord.
We are in God’s hand, brother, not in theirs.
What grows of it, no matter.
Get you all three into the boxtree.
There’s warrant in that theft Which steals itself when there’s no mercy left.
Though all the world could see, None could be so abused in sight as he.
I pray you and beseech you that you will.
Our present business Is to general woe.
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
See him delivered, Fabian; bring him hither.
He that plays the king shall be welcome.
Observe him, for the love of mockery, for I know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of him.
Then you’ll buy 'em to sell again.
All which time Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers To them for you.
If you do love Rosalind so near the heart as your gesture cries it out, when your brother marries Aliena shall you marry her.
I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and sewed up again, and that I’ll prove upon thee, though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
I’ll not have it so.
Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a bitter fool and a sweet fool?
And mine a hundred and forty.
Get you to church, and have a good priest that can tell you what marriage is.
God 'ild you for your last company.
No money, on my faith, but the gleek.
O thou weed, Who art so lovely fair and smell’st so sweet That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst ne'er been born!
Doth not the gentleman Deserve as full as fortunate a bed As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?
Have you not hurt your head?
Ay, and briefly.
And do it with all thy heart.
An if they live, I hope I need not fear.
I pray thee, bear my former answer back.
Shall I hear from you anon?
We’ll leave you, Brutus.
Grace grow where those drops fall!
I know this, and thus I challenge it.
Sure, her offense Must be of such unnatural degree That monsters it (or your fore-vouched affection Fall into taint), which to believe of her Must be a faith that reason without miracle Could never plant in me.
Call you me daughter?
No marrying ’mong his subjects?
Come thou no more for ransom, gentle herald.
And I am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me, I must scratch.
I know the boy will well usurp the grace, Voice, gait, and action of a gentlewoman.
Well, go thy way.
Thou art a soldier only.
What committed?
What, shall I stab him as he sleeps?
Nay, come, I prithee.
Madam?
Riotous madness, To be entangled with those mouth-made vows Which break themselves in swearing!
We judge no less.—Uncle of Exeter, Enlarge the man committed yesterday That railed against our person.
More pity that the eagle should be mewed While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.
This rudeness is a sauce to his good wit, Which gives men stomach to digest his words With better appetite.
Oh, my soul’s joy!
Bring him with triumph home unto his house!
But sure the bravery of his grief did put me Into a towering passion.
Is your name Goneril?
They have in England A coin that bears the figure of an angel Stamped in gold, but that’s insculped upon.
I give them with this ring, Which when you part from, lose, or give away, Let it presage the ruin of your love
By this hand, I’ll have that gown.
Are you fair?
I am none of his flirt-gills.
My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, ’tis she That tempers him to this extremity.
I had rather break mine own.
Killing swine.
Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a cat to scratch a man to death!
Why is Time such a niggard of hair, being, as it is, so plentiful an excrement?
Nay, let him alone.
Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love, An hour but married, Tybalt murderèd, Doting like me, and like me banishèd, Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair And fall upon the ground, as I do now, Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
Methinks I do.
What says the silver with her virgin hue?
He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid’s bow-string, and the little hangman dare not shoot at him.
They are of Norway, sir.
O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!
Oh, temperance, lady!
A thousand thousand!
I weigh it lightly, were it heavier.
Your Honor’s players, hearing your amendment, Are come to play a pleasant comedy, For so your doctors hold it very meet, Seeing too much sadness hath congealed your blood, And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy.
Let’s think ’t unsafe To come in to the cry without more help.
It lies in you.
Sirrah, I’ll teach thee a speech.
The ancient saying is no heresy.
But I know to be up late is to be up late.
Hear me with patience.
It is offended.
I would have my bond.
I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak’st.
The old cock.
Ay, at Philippi.
Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing.
I pray you, see him presently discharged, For he is bound to sea, and stays but for it.
Thy truth then be thy dower.
A trusty villain, sir, that very oft, When I am dull with care and melancholy, Lightens my humor with his merry jests.
I pray you, sir, what is he?
I saw her laid low in her kindred’s vault And presently took post to tell it you.
But by sea he is an absolute master.
Away!
Thou told’st me they were stol'n unto this wood.
What stature is she of?
If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn.
You have among you many a purchased slave, Which—like your asses and your dogs and mules— You use in abject and in slavish parts Because you bought them.
Oh, Oh, Oh!
That a woman conceived me, I thank her.
Oh, but I fear.
What means that bloody knife?
What good is covered with the face of heaven, To be discovered, that can do me good?
Such welcome and unwelcome things at once 'Tis hard to reconcile.
Lie thou there.
Is he of God’s making?
I’ll be with thee betimes.
This guest of summer, The temple-haunting martlet, does approve, By his loved mansionry, that the heaven’s breath Smells wooingly here.
I have heard more since.
Madam, I go with all convenient speed.
Conduct me to mine host.
And Launcelot, soon at supper shalt thou see Lorenzo, who is thy new master’s guest.
Now in respect it is in the fields, it pleaseth me well; but in respect it is not in the court, it is tedious.
Since I have your good leave to go away, I will make haste.
I could say she were worse.
Have I thought long to see this morning’s face, And doth it give me such a sight as this?
Come, sire, no more.—What, Oswald, ho!
Why, now, blow wind, swell billow, and swim bark!
Go seek him.
Twill endure wind and weather.
Show.
He has almost supped.
Have with you.
Let us now stay and see it.
Since no man of aught he leaves knows, what is ’t to leave betimes?
Yet ’tis the plague to great ones, Prerogatived are they less than the base.
No, it is Casca, one incorporate To our attempts.
The Queen approaches.
Sir, I lack advancement.
O lamentable day!
If you have lost him, Why, I have lost him too.
What is he that you ask for, niece?
Slave!
By 'r lady, I think it be so.
Wherefore was that cry?
How!
Are you good men and true?
What do you think?
Wherefore art thou Romeo?
So is mine.—Do you hear, monster?
Thank God.” A good answer.
Then but forbear your food a little while Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn And give it food.
I see this hath a little dashed your spirits.
I am now from home, and out of that provision Which shall be needful for your entertainment.
Women are made to bear, and so are you.
For the Queen, I’ll take her to my guard.
O Cassio, whence came this?
You speak all your part at once, cues and all.—Pyramus, enter.
I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.
What, would you make me mad?
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
It is not day.
Dear lady, welcome home.
I am here already, sir.
Am I your bird?
Fare you well.
Nay, not sound, I pray you.
With Rosaline, my ghostly Father?
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio, And much offense too.
Would Katherine had never seen him, though!
I can be patient.
And a goose for his discretion.
Have I caught thee?
Tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on, and for a sovereign’s sovereign to ride on, and for the world, familiar to us and unknown, to lay apart their particular functions and wonder at him.
Caesar’s will?
Let’s have the tongs and the bones.
Therefore, merchant, I’ll limit thee this day To seek thy life by beneficial help.
Is the day so young?
But cheer thy heart, and be thou not dismayed.
Good sirs, take heart.
Oh, do-de, do-de, do-de.
Pluck out his eyes.
From France there comes a power Into this scattered kingdom, who already, Wise in our negligence, have secret feet In some of our best ports and are at point To show their open banner.
I thank you, sir.
Will you go to them?
No, but to the gate, and there will the devil meet me like an old cuckold with horns on his head, and say, “Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to heaven; here’s no place for you maids.” So deliver I up my apes and away to Saint Peter.
Follow the noise so far as we have quarter; Let’s see how it will give off.
Keep your cabins.
Tis most convenient.
What’s to do?
Be assured We go to use our hands and not our tongues.
Tis true, most worthy signior.
Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall, And by the doom of death end woes and all.
Do not fear our person.
This is a slave whose easy borrowed pride Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.— Out, varlet, from my sight!
Your Grace does me as great honors as can be desired in the hearts of his subjects.
My life were better ended by their hate Than death proroguèd, wanting of thy love.
Tis worse than murder To do upon respect such violent outrage.
Therefore be double damned, Swear thou art honest!
No more that thane of Cawdor shall deceive Our bosom interest
I say, by sorcery he got this isle.
So Fulvia told me.
O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note To drown me in thy sister’s flood of tears.
What do you mean To dote thus on such luggage?
She is drowned already, sir, with salt water, though I seem to drown her remembrance again with more.
I must hence to wait.
In such a time as this it is not meet That every nice offense should bear his comment.
Where art thou now?
Hear me, good brother— Under your pardon.
Judge me, you gods!
Murder!
All is confirmed, my lord, which was reported.
Is it my lady mother?
No, my most wrongèd sister.
Rumor it abroad That Anne my wife is very grievous sick.
Hence, Mardian, And bring me how he takes my death. 
Here, sir, as foolish as I was before.
Sir boy, I’ll whip you from your foining fence, Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will.
I shall return before your Lordship thence.
Romeo, will you come to your father’s?
Have you done yet?
Your reason.
O weary night, O long and tedious night, Abate thy hours.
Be bold, and take thy stand.
Begin you to grow upon me?
Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.” You shall look fairer ere I give or hazard.
Now I’ll tell you without asking.
A fox when one has caught her And such a daughter Should sure to the slaughter, If my cap would buy a halter.
Now from head to foot I am marble-constant.
Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm!
And to see how he prizes the foolish woman your wife!
But who is with him?
I saw no man use you at his pleasure.
You say you are a better soldier.
Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?
God be wi' you.
Clubs cannot part them.
Yet at the first I saw the treasons planted.
That is some good.
He did me kindness, sir, drew on my side, But in conclusion put strange speech upon me.
I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
Come then and take the last warmth of my lips.
What a blow was there given!
Therefore, good Brutus, be prepared to hear.
And the tears of it are wet.
Signior Montano, Your trusty and most valiant servitor, With his free duty recommends you thus, And prays you to believe him.
Who does me this?
You are gentlemen of brave mettle.
All come to this?
Where is kind Hastings?
Let husbands know Their wives have sense like them.
I pray you, have a continent forbearance till the speed of his rage goes slower.
Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay.
Keep thee warm.
Now Margaret’s curse is fall'n upon our heads, When she exclaimed on Hastings, you, and I, For standing by when Richard stabbed her son.
I thought so then, I’ll kill myself for grief.
Marry, he told me so himself; and he said he cared not who knew it.
I cannot go no further.
And do you now strew flowers in his way That comes in triumph over Pompey’s blood?
Beware the thane of Fife.
She is protectress of her honor too.
Give every man thy ear but few thy voice.
But I have cause to pry into this pedant.
And I, my lord.
There, take it to you, trenchers, cups, and all!
Lysander, keep thy Hermia.
But ere we could arrive the point proposed, Caesar cried, “Help me, Cassius, or I sink!” I, as Aeneas, our great ancestor, Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber Did I the tired Caesar.
You were best knock louder.
I should be wise, for honesty’s a fool And loses that it works for.
He’s married to Octavia.
Pray, set it down and rest you.
To prison, eyes, ne'er look on liberty.
O fair Katherine, if you will love me soundly with your French heart, I will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with your English tongue.
There!
Which of you trembles not that looks on me?
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows, Came more and more and fought on part and part, Till the Prince came, who parted either part.
The king falls from bias of nature—there’s father against child.
How now shall this be compassed?
Go, be gone.
Why, then, we kill all our women.
In pity of the challenger’s youth, I would fain dissuade him, but he will not be entreated.
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I’ll bide your proof.
Though Nature hath given us wit to flout at Fortune, hath not Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?
But let it be.
Good my lord, If I have any grace or power to move you His present reconciliation take.
This night methinks is but the daylight sick.
Oh, thy vile lady!
Yes, a dozen, and as many to th' vantage as would store the world they played for.
Cessez!
We looked not for Mark Antony here.
How chance the roses there do fade so fast?
Arms, arms, sword, fire, corruption in the place!
With whom?
Here comes the herald of the French, my liege.
And what’s her history?
Yes, one place else, if you will hear me name it.
Dearly my delicate Ariel.
Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin, For to deny each article with oath Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception That I do groan withal.
Pray you, no more of this.
Whither away?
A friend of Antony’s.
Here’s Romeo’s man.
I know not.
No, monster, not I.
I am not furnished with the present money.
Madam, I am here.
This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo.
But if that I am I, then well I know Your weeping sister is no wife of mine, Nor to her bed no homage do I owe.
And I do hope good days and long to see.
Down on your knees And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man’s love, For I must tell you friendly in your ear, Sell when you can; you are not for all markets.
Why, this was molded on a porringer!
What news abroad?
Confirmed, confirmed!
And when shalt thou see him again?
Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel, That thou mayst shake the superflux to them And show the heavens more just.
All my pretty ones?
By th' mass, and ’tis like a camel indeed.
Come to what is important in ’t.
Is this well done?
So do all thoughts.
Bestow it at your pleasure, and believe Caesar’s no merchant, to make prize with you Of things that merchants sold.
O most wicked fiend!
Yes, sooth, and so do you.
Look how he makes to Caesar.
You have among you killed a sweet and innocent lady.
Well, we shall sift him.—Welcome, my good friends!
We have willing dames enough.
You’ll “never trust his word after.” Come, ’tis a foolish saying.
Let me go with him.
The deep of night is crept upon our talk, And nature must obey necessity, Which we will niggard with a little rest.
Dear, they durst not, So dear the love my people bore me, nor set A mark so bloody on the business, but With colors fairer painted their foul ends.
Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself And you of her, the bloody book of law You shall yourself read in the bitter letter, After your own sense, yea, though our proper son Stood in your action.
Let still the woman take An elder than herself.
But that it would be double-dealing, sir, I would you could make it another.
Those linen cheeks of thine Are counselors to fear.
What a brazen-faced varlet art thou to deny thou knowest me!
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Think upon Vaughan, and with guilty fear Let fall thy lance.
Farewell, dear Father.
You know that I held Epicurus strong And his opinion.
Do you speak in the sick tune?
And yet thou wilt tutor me from quarreling!
Repays he my deep service With such deep contempt?
Very brief, and to exceeding good sense—less.
Farewell.
God knows I loved my niece, And she is dead, slandered to death by villains That dare as well answer a man indeed As I dare take a serpent by the tongue.— Boys, apes, braggarts, jacks, milksops!
Wherefore?
Bliss be upon you!
I know I cannot please you.
And so am I for no woman.
I can stay with Regan, I and my hundred knights.
I durst not!
Hear me, recreant!
There is a cliff, whose high and bending head Looks fearfully in the confinèd deep.
This done, he took the bride about the neck And kissed her lips with such a clamorous smack That at the parting all the church did echo.
Now, by my holidam, here comes Katherina!
Enough, Captain.
What news more?
Here, stand behind this bulk, straight will he come.
Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
Ay, leeks is good.
He knows I know him well.
I thank my noble lord.
Thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose.
I’ll buckler thee against a million.
Fabian can scarce hold him yonder.
I am a tainted wether of the flock, Meetest for death.
To fright you thus methinks I am too savage; To do worse to you were fell cruelty, Which is too nigh your person.
My voice is now the king’s, my looks mine own.
Stop her there!
The son is fled.
How goes it with my brave Mark Antony?
My purpose is, indeed, a horse of that color.
These wise men that give fools money get themselves a good report—after fourteen years' purchase. 
Still so constant, lord.
And let his knights have colder looks among you.
To you I am bound for life and education.
Aunchient Pistol, I do partly understand your meaning.
And yet she’ll kneel and pray, I have seen her do ’t.
Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
They are.
It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
How canst thou urge God’s dreadful law to us When thou hast broke it in such dear degree?
The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of.
Farewell till then.
Caesar, I shall.
Our separation so abides and flies That thou, residing here, goes yet with me, And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee.
But life, being weary of these worldly bars, Never lacks power to dismiss itself.
Tis fittest.
Othello, leave some officer behind And he shall our commission bring to you, And such things else of quality and respect As doth import you.
Patience, I say.
I do begin to have bloody thoughts.
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
My nyas?
But I’ll not chide thee.
Speak.
Come on, come on.
Go thy ways to a nunnery.
What would you?
God and your arms be praised, victorious friends!
Why, ’tis a cockle or a walnut shell, A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby’s cap.
I shall be pinched to death.
Justice, most sacred duke, against the Abbess.
You pay him then.
Oh, brave Iago, honest and just, That hast such noble sense of thy friend’s wrong!
Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance, Nor bite the lip as angry wenches will, Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk.
Sweet men, come to him.
Renown and grace is dead.
Let me beseech your grace not to do so.
You may go to the devil’s dam!
Humbly I thank your grace.
I talked with no man at that hour, my lord.
I beseech you, sir, pardon me.
No doubt, my liege, if each man do his best.
He raised the house with loud and coward cries.
How may that be?
What was it you told me of today, that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signor Benedick?
Now art thou sociable.
Nay, an you be so tardy, come no more in my sight.
Are our eyes our own?
Will it give place to flexure and low bending?
Look to the lady.
And let our hearts, as subtle masters do, Stir up their servants to an act of rage And after seem to chide 'em.
They say he cried out of sack.
If they do see thee they will murder thee.
What says this leaden casket?
O heavens, that they were living both in Naples, The king and queen there!
Nor must not then be yielded to in this.
Vex not his ghost.
How have I offended?
Orsino, noble sir, Be pleased that I shake off these names you give me.
Madam, do you.
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen.
Marry, that should you if I were your mistress, or I should think my honesty ranker than my wit.
The foul fiend follows me!
He that will think to live till he be old, Give me some help!
I am sent before to make a fire, and they are coming after to warm them.
But what, is Catesby gone?
It is no boast, being asked, to say we are.
What’s Antony?
My mother.
His fault concludes but what the law should end, The life of Tybalt.
Hence, horrible shadow!
It touches you, my lord, as much as me.
He is not here, so please your lordship, that should sing it.
Why is your cheek so pale?
It is so.
Which of them shall I take?
Good morrow, both.
Learn it, learn it, marquess.
How now, fellow?
My lord, when at their home I did commend your highness' letters to them.
Hamlet.” This in obedience hath my daughter shown me, And more above, hath his solicitings, As they fell out by time, by means, and place, All given to mine ear.
Better I were distract— So should my thoughts be severed from my griefs, And woes by wrong imaginations lose The knowledge of themselves.
Why dost thou stay?
Trebonius knows his time.
Were they not forced with those that should be ours, We might have met them dareful, beard to beard, And beat them backward home.
It is not day.
 I arranged for a friend of mine to marry a common whore.
Indeed, he hath an excellent good name.
Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve, We would spend it in some words upon that business, If you would grant the time.
Is it even so?
I’ll not to bed tonight.
Those that were your father’s enemies Have steeped their galls in honey, and do serve you With hearts create of duty and of zeal.
Who steals my purse steals trash.
My language!
Two things provided more
Why, then, tomorrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?
My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.— My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
Hear you, sir?
Your Majesty, hear now, saving your Majesty’s manhood, what an arrant, rascally, beggarly, lousy knave it is.
Go tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither on my legs.
The glove which I have given him for a favor May haply purchase him a box o' th' ear.
Here’s one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
  Here comes Biondello.
Oh, ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly To seal love’s bonds new made than they are wont To keep obligèd faith unforfeited.
O Antony, O thou Arabian bird!
When he returns from hunting, I will not speak with him.
My other self, my council’s consistory, My oracle, my prophet, my dear cousin, I, as a child, will go by thy direction Toward Ludlow then, for we’ll not stay behind.
Prescribe not us our duty.
I have seen you both.
Those that will follow Cassius, go with him, And public reasons shall be renderèd Of Caesar’s death.
And buried, gentle Tyrrel?
Be angry when you will, it shall have scope.
There thou speak’st reason.
Here comes another troop to seek for you.
I will depart in quiet And, in despite of mirth, mean to be merry.
Why, what make you here?
He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester town, Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
If you poison us, do we not die?
I stay too long from her.
She In th’ habiliments of the goddess Isis That day appeared, and oft before gave audience, As ’tis reported, so.
By my troth, I am sick.
Interrupt the monster one word further, and, by this hand, I’ll turn my mercy out o' doors and make a stockfish of thee.
The all-seeing sun Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
Good husband, come home presently.
I will not come.
His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us On every trifle.
Who can blot that name With any just reproach?
What is “t o”clock?
Should not upbraid our course.
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands So by his father lost.
No, but the barber’s man hath been seen with him, and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis balls.
I’ll fetch them, sir.
I should have been a sore one then.
Regard Titinius, And tell me what thou notest about the field.
Who does he accuse?
Ay, every inch a king.
Borrow Cupid’s wings And soar with them above a common bound.
My mind was never yet more mercenary.
Here comes other reck'nings.
Twill be recorded for a precedent, And many an error by the same example Will rush into the state.
Of all the days i' the year, I came to ’t that day that our last King Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
Some oracle Must rectify our knowledge.
Sir, fare you well.
If I owe you anything, I will pay you in cudgels.
He that is robbed, not wanting what is stol'n, Let him not know’t, and he’s not robbed at all.
I’ll show thee the best springs.
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven Visit her face too roughly.—Heaven and earth, Must I remember?
Best you safed the bringer Out of the host.
I will incontinently drown myself.
To that end, As matching to his youth and vanity, I did present him with the Paris balls.
He’s of the color of the nutmeg.
Call my train together.— Degenerate bastard, I’ll not trouble thee.
I have heard my father name him.
Let’s all sink wi' th' king.
Is it four o'clock?
I have stayed for thee, God knows, in torment and in agony.
 you resemble a most honorable man.
Yes, in truth it is, sir.
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress.
I know that voice.
Be comforted, good madam.
This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
But you are no such man.
He should, for that, commit your godfathers.
Here she comes, cursed and sad.
Yes, Cassius.
What art thou?
Nay, that’s true, that’s very true.
I cannot but remember such things were That were most precious to me.
No medicine in the world can do thee good.
Come, let me have a bigger.
How now, general?
Be patient till the last.
Are you not Kent?
Tis very true.
You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout Till you have drenched our steeples, drowned the cocks!
Let’s speak to him.
Hear me, you wrangling pirates, that fall out In sharing that which you have pilled from me!
God, the best maker of all marriages, Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one.
You have, my lord.
For us, we will resign During the life of this old majesty To him our absolute power.
Bring them before us.
I will be here again, even with a thought.
How foolish do your fears seem now, Calphurnia!
A single thing, as I am now, that wonders To hear thee speak of Naples.
Therefore my merchandise makes me not sad.
Then bring me to their sights.
Thus do all traitors.
What satisfaction canst thou have tonight?
Are you the lady of the house?
Therefore be merry, Cassio, For thy solicitor shall rather die Than give thy cause away.
The time will bring it out.
Slight, will you make an ass o' me?
Welcome, Iago.
I have a device to make all well.
I came hither to tell you; and, circumstances shortened, for she has been too long a-talking of, the lady is disloyal.
And what wilt thou do—beg when that is spent?
May she give that?
Antonio never yet was thief or pirate, Though, I confess, on base and ground enough, Orsino’s enemy.
What, thou meanest an officer?
Our size of sorrow, Proportioned to our cause, must be as great As that which makes it.
I humbly thank your ladyship.
It is a nipping and an eager air.
Why of thy thought, Iago?
A certain aim he took At a fair vestal thronèd by the west, And loosed his love shaft smartly from his bow As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts.
Safely stowed.
Signior Hortensio, ’twixt such friends as we Few words suffice.
I am not treacherous.
Away, and let me die.
Your eyes drop millstones, when fools' eyes drop tears.
O deadly sin!
If they suffer our departure, death’s the word.
Alas, Iago, my lord hath so bewhored her, Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her, That true hearts cannot bear it.
He would be crowned.
On my knees I beg That you’ll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.” Good sir, no more.
Since my young lady’s going into France, sir, the fool hath much pined away.
Did I not, fellow?
Old Montague is come, And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
I will say for you.
Twas yet some comfort When misery could beguile the tyrant’s rage And frustrate his proud will.
And art thou changed?
By providence divine.
What says Romeo?
But are you sure That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?
Thou, my slave, As thou report’st thyself, wast then her servant.
Nay, you were better speak first, and when you were graveled for lack of matter, you might take occasion to kiss.
What news?
Royal Queen!
Poor Tom’s a-cold.
Take it and do ’t, and leave me for this time.
That love i begged for you he begged of me.
Oh, I have heard him speak of that same brother, And he did render him the most unnatural That lived amongst men.
We will be witnesses.
Would it were mortal poison for thy sake.
Will it never be day?
Approach, Sir Andrew.
I beseech you.
And never, since the middle summer’s spring, Met we on hill, in dale, forest, or mead, By pavèd fountain, or by rushy brook, Or in the beachèd margent of the sea, To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind, But with thy brawls thou hast disturbed our sport.
Caesar, I shall.
Madam, you must come to your uncle.
Very well.
Where is the horse that doth untread again His tedious measures with the unbated fire That he did pace them first?
Fare you well.
There is a river in Macedon, and there is also, moreover, a river at Monmouth.
He is already named and gone to Scone To be invested.
Nay, do not pause; for I did kill King Henry— But ’twas thy beauty that provokèd me.
Madam, with all my heart.
Where’s my knave, my fool?—Go you, and call my fool hither. 
My most dear lord!
There to meet with Macbeth.
Get thee to bed.
Mine honor was not yielded, But conquered merely.
Who knows he is?
I hid me under the dead mooncalf’s gaberdine for fear of the storm.
What, will you walk with me about the town And then go to my inn and dine with me?
I’ll have this knot knit up tomorrow morning.
Madam, I had rather— I know your lady does not love her husband.
Think of it.
In this, though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but I am a plain-dealing villain.
Leave it to his discretion, and let us listen to the moon.
Pray you, leave your courtesy, good monsieur.
No, sir.
You are merry, my lord.
One would think his mother’s milk were scarce out of him.
Sometimes from her eyes I did receive fair speechless messages.
Lear’s shadow.
Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain, As in revenge, have sucked up from the sea Contagious fogs, which falling in the land Have every pelting river made so proud That they have overborne their continents.
Your honor calls you hence.
The sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch, But that the sea, mounting to th' welkin’s cheek, Dashes the fire out.
Not a word of me.
And did not I in rage depart from thence?
Oh, most lame and impotent conclusion!
Why, I am glad on ’t.
And so adieu, good madam.
Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet The noble Brutus, thrusting this report Into his ears.
The morn is fair.
I do, and surely It is a sleepy language, and thou speak’st Out of thy sleep.
How with mine honor may I give him that Which I have given to you?
For she is wise, if I can judge of her.
I do beseech your lordship, call her back.
Herald, save thou thy labor.
Let’s follow, Gertrude.
Marry them to your heirs!
All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes, That I, being governed by the watery moon, May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world.
Now die, die, die, die, die.
But, like the owner of a foul disease, To keep it from divulging, let it feed Even on the pith of life.
But to be frank, and give it thee again.
His own unkindness That stripped her from his benediction turned her To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights To his dog-hearted daughters.
So will it, madam till I lie with you.
Wilt break my heart?
Kneel not, gentle Portia.
The king is coming.
I am called.
One Angelo, a goldsmith.
But in your daughter’s womb I bury them, Where, in that nest of spicery, they will breed Selves of themselves, to your recomforture.
Why, do not your courtier’s hands sweat?
I had rather be any kind o' thing than a fool.
And for mine own part, I durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips and receiving the bad air. 
Edmund and I have talked, And more convenient is he for my hand Than for your lady’s.
I am no fee’d post, lady.
Farewell the plumèd troops and the big wars That makes ambition virtue!
God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
The ways are dangerous.
So please your majesty That we may wake the king?
Therefore I pray you lead me to the caskets To try my fortune.
See where they come.
On thy love, I charge thee.
It proves not so.
Speak to her, Hamlet.
I hate ingratitude more in a man Than lying, vainness, babbling, drunkenness, Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption Inhabits our frail blood—    O heavens themselves!
Go to, mum, you are he.
Why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline, Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
O noble fool!
Is all our company here?
Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?
It is my wretched fortune.
Hark!
Peace there!
Love is merely a madness and, I tell you, deserves as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do, and the reason why they are not so punished and cured is that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers are in love, too.
If he be leaden, icy, cold, unwilling, Be thou so too, and so break off the talk, And give us notice of his inclination; For we tomorrow hold divided councils, Wherein thyself shalt highly be employed.
Sir, do you know me?
Just as high as my heart.
What, art thou hurt?
Thou shalt find That I’ll resume the shape which thou dost think I have cast off for ever.
So please your Lordship to accept our duty.
Away!
The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night.
When shall he come?
The soldier’s pole is fall’n!
Oh, help, ho!
Fine, i' faith!
I tell thee, churlish priest, A ministering angel shall my sister be When thou liest howling.  
Wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again to the suit I made to thee?
I could not find him at the Elephant.
Tis no matter.— Go to the fellow, good Alexas.
Ha?
Say I, her sovereign, am her subject low.
I humbly thank you, sir.
I have within my mind A thousand raw tricks of these bragging jacks Which I will practice.
Good morrow, masters.
My mind hath been as big as one of yours, My heart as great, my reason haply more, To bandy word for word and frown for frown.
Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars And sayst it is not fit.
The ditty does remember my drowned father.
Hence!
Till that, I’ll view the manners of the town, Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings, And then return and sleep within mine inn, For with long travel I am stiff and weary.
But sadly, tell me who.
She is of so free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition, she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested.
For heaven’s sake, help me!
I have none.
Never make known what you have seen tonight.
Now, Signior, where’s the Count?
I am out of all other tune, methinks.
Were ’t twenty of the greatest tributaries That do acknowledge Caesar, should I find them So saucy with the hand of she here—what’s her name Since she was Cleopatra?
And though we lay these honors on this man To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads, He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold, To groan and sweat under the business, Either led or driven, as we point the way.
But Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man.
 one hurt by reasons and the other gone crazy without any.
If he do resist, Subdue him at his peril!
We’ll send Mark Antony to the senate house, And he shall say you are not well today.
At nine i' th' morning here we’ll meet again.
Well, we will leave you then till dinnertime.
And so, good Capulet—which name I tender As dearly as my own—be satisfied.
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes.
Or else she could not have the wit to do this.
Why, you speak truth.
I know his trumpet.
But, I’ll warrant you, when I say so, she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world.
Yet I have not seen So likely an ambassador of love.
How comes this trick upon him?
I do not like thy look, I promise thee.
 King Lewis the Tenth, who was sole heir to the usurper Capet, could not rest easy as king until he was assured that Queen Isabel, his grandmother, was a direct descendent of the Lady Ermengare, daughter of the aforementioned Charles duke of Lorraine, by which marriage the line of Charles the Great was reunited with the throne of France.
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
Tis so.
Good morrow, Lieutenant Bardolph.
My lord, I will not.
Fare you well.
And what other oath Than honesty to honesty engaged, That this shall be, or we will fall for it?
You shall have leave.
Are not you he?
Good Master Fabian, grant me another request.
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
Their battles are at hand.
One cried, “God bless us!” and “Amen” the other, As they had seen me with these hangman’s hands.
Where’s the cook?
Yes, gracious madam.
O, let her live, And I’ll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty, Slander myself as false to Edward’s bed, Throw over her the veil of infamy.
What life is in that to be the death of this marriage?
How far that little candle throws his beams!
True.
Bring him away.
It is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accused, the Prince and Claudio mightily abused, and Don John is the author of all, who is fled and gone.
You have too courtly a wit for me.
Was ever woman in this humor won?
I’ll see no more.
I will to Egypt.
Drunk?
Shall we be sundered?
Thieves!
I doubt not of your wisdom.
Make no noise, make no noise.
No, though thou call’st thyself a hotter name Than any is in hell.
By the world, I think my wife be honest and think she is not.
Thou speak’st wiser than thou art ware of.
Tis now but four o'clock.
For a little Follow, and do me service.
Let him not pass, But kill him rather.
We will.
Lend thy hand And pluck my magic garment from me.
And, honest company, I thank you all, That have beheld me give away myself To this most patient, sweet and virtuous wife.
No?
Look like th' innocent flower, But be the serpent under ’t.
He is of a very melancholy disposition.
Stand fast together, lest some friend of Caesar’s Should chance— Talk not of standing.—Publius, good cheer.
If you’ll sit down, I’ll bear your logs the while.
The meat was well, if you were so contented.
 she’s not for you—more’s the pity.
Why, your lieutenant, Cassio.
How dost thou, Guildenstern?
That, sir, which I will not report after her.
Our care and pity is so much upon you That we remain your friend.
O, O, O, O.
Enobarbus?
I say I love thee more than he can do.
What a fearful night is this!
What should this mean?
God give your Grace good rest.
I must believe my master; else, I promise you, I should be arguing still upon that doubt.
When you are gentle, you shall have one too, And not till then.
Though he be as good a gentleman as the devil is, as Lucifer and Beelzebub himself, it is necessary, look your Grace, that he keep his vow and his oath.
Yond island carrions, desperate of their bones, Ill-favoredly become the morning field.
Awake, awake!
Would they had stayed.
Which of you two did dine with me today?
Bid him set on his powers betimes before, And we will follow.
If thou pleasest not, I yield thee up my life.
Well, let him go.
The desperate tempest hath so banged the Turks, That their designment halts.
Ay, on my life, and hopes to find you forward Upon his party for the gain thereof; And thereupon he sends you this good news, That this same very day your enemies, The kindred of the queen, must die at Pomfret.
Since Cleopatra died I have lived in such dishonor that the gods Detest my baseness.
I will answer you with gait and entrance.
Lead the way.
Therefore, farewell.
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players We o'erraught on the way.
In praising Antony, I have dispraised Caesar.
Made you no more offense but what you speak of?
No, I protest, I know not the contents.
He only in a general honest thought And common good to all, made one of them.
I have been with your father and given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan his duchess will be here with him this night.
Believe me for mine honor, and have respect to mine honor that you may believe.
Honest, my lord?
The word is too good to paint out her wickedness.
Shall we go, coz?
Take my sword.
Let them curtsy with their left legs, and not presume to touch a hair of my master’s horse-tail till they kiss their hands.
You may do then in time.
Lady, you come hither to be married to this count?
Your  It is not a fashion for the maids in France to kiss before they are married, would she say?
Stands Scotland where it did?
My master, and my lord!
Oh!
Get you gone, And at the pit of Acheron Meet me i' th' morning.
Sister, have comfort.
My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.
Why, whither shall we go?
This night I hold an old accustomed feast, Whereto I have invited many a guest Such as I love.
It shall be done.
Pluck up thy spirits.
I afeard of him!
Where’s Antony?
We here attend you.
Nay, heaven doth know.
Is his head worth a hat or his chin worth a beard?
Here’s to Caesar.
Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell?
Make your vaunting true, And it shall please me well.
Sir, know you this glove?
Adieu, be vigitant, I beseech you.
 where’s the money I gave you?
No, not much moved.
And thence from Athens turn away our eyes To seek new friends and stranger companies.
He plies the duke at morning and at night, And doth impeach the freedom of the state If they deny him justice.
He has no more directions in the true disciplines of the wars, look you, of the Roman disciplines, than is a puppy dog.
tis a lost fear.
Quick, quick!
You are idle, shallow things.
Her father is Baptista Minola, An affable and courteous gentleman.
Then bid adieu to me, and say the tears Belong to Egypt.
My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago.
Why should he call her “whore”?
Your accent is something finer than you could purchase in so removed a dwelling.
The gray-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night, Checkering the eastern clouds with streaks of light, And fleckled darkness like a drunkard reels From forth day’s path and Titan’s fiery wheels.
Your mistress bears well.
What do you mean?
That you did fear is done.
And with my hand I seal my true heart’s love.
Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time, But I will watch you from such watching now.
Be ’t so.
Katherine his daughter and with her, to dowry, Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms.
Have I in conquest stretched mine arm so far To be afraid to tell graybeards the truth?
Tomorrow, my lord.
Before the time be out?
Trust to ’t, bethink you.
A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say “Wit, whither wilt?”  Nay, you might keep that check for it, till you met your wife’s wit going to your neighbor’s bed.
Here the street is narrow.
Ay, ay, three thousand ducats.
Give me faith, say I.
If this letter move him not, his legs cannot.
The motion’s good indeed and be it so.— Petruchio, I shall be your 
Tis the last service that I shall command you.
And so good morrow to you every one.
If my lady have not called up her steward Malvolio and bid him turn you out of doors, never trust me.
I pray, weep not.
Retire!
Up and down, up and down,  I will lead them up and down.
Stones have been known to move, and trees to speak.
Good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow.
Here comes Sir Toby halting.
That very hour, and in the selfsame inn, A meaner woman was deliverèd Of such a burden, male twins, both alike.
I hear The strain of strutting chanticleer Cry “Cock-a-diddle-dow.” Where should this music be?
But while thou livest, keep a good tongue in thy head.
But I will write again to Mantua, And keep her at my cell till Romeo come.
You know I gave it you half an hour since.
So do you too, where you perceive them thick.
In happy time.
O Juliet, I already know thy grief.
I want more uncles here to welcome me.
O thou dull Moor!
Speak’st thou in sober meanings?
Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy.
Let me alone.
Lives my sweet son?
My lord, there needs no such apology.
Then comes my fit again.
Is the king dead, the empire unpossessed?
The king’s a-bed.
No blown ambition doth our arms incite, But love—dear love!—and our aged father’s right.
And true she is, as she hath proved herself.
The sweet and bitter fool Will presently appear— The one in motley here, The other found out there.
If I should say, I saw such islanders— For, certes, these are people of the island— Who, though they are of monstrous shape, yet note, Their manners are more gentle-kind than of Our human generation you shall find Many—nay, almost any.
Why should she write to Edmund?
And there is a forerunner come from a fifth, the Prince of Morocco, who brings word the prince his master will be here tonight.
Good now, some excellent fortune!
How know you he loves her?
Beware Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in, Bear ’t that th' opposèd may beware of thee.
So, Dolabella, It shall content me best.
Hark, come hither, Tyrrel.
To cabin, silence!
Here, Peter Quince.
Give me thy hand.
Why, let her except, before excepted.
Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company, For you in my respect are all the world.
Since this fortune falls to you, Be content and seek no new.
Come on then.
Sir?
Nothing in his life Became him like the leaving it.
Come, Balthasar, we’ll hear that song again.
But yet—   Which, of he or Adrian, for a good wager, first begins to crow?
He may win, And what is music then?
I shall be reconciled to him again.
More, I prithee, more.
Pray you Be ever known to patience.
Come, shall we go and kill us venison?
Is she not apt?
Beatrice— In faith, I will go.
Heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful to him!
Lucius!—Fast asleep?
No, I will weep no more.
Good morrow, Casca.—Caius Ligarius, Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy As that same ague which hath made you lean.
Doth not  Ay, Nurse, what of that?
Do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day, lest he knock that about yours.
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous, Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs.
No, sooth, sir.
Why, uncle, ’tis a shame.
Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
I am sped.
Because that I familiarly sometimes Do use you for my fool and chat with you, Your sauciness will jest upon my love And make a common of my serious hours.
Tis strange.
And they that are most gallèd with my folly, They most must laugh.
peace, this piece of toasted cheese will do ’t.
Doth not my wit become me rarely?
To express the like kindness, myself, that have been more kindly beholding to you than any, freely give unto you this young scholar 
If you dare fight today, come to the field.
Is this certain?
Here’s sport indeed!
Or if thou hast not broke from company Abruptly, as my passion now makes me, Thou hast not loved.
You’re welcome, sir, and he for your good sake.
And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?
Look, here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers.
But If thou dost break her virgin knot before All sanctimonious ceremonies may With full and holy rite be ministered, No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall To make this contract grow, but barren hate, Sour-eyed disdain, and discord shall bestrew The union of your bed with weeds so loathly That you shall hate it both.
They have made worms' meat of me.
Then so much have I heard.
It is young Orlando, that tripped up the wrestler’s heels and your heart both in an instant.
Who would fardels bear, To grunt and sweat under a weary life, But that the dread of something after death, The undiscovered country from whose bourn No traveler returns, puzzles the will And makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that we know not of?
Go to.
Here’s France and Burgundy, my noble lord.
Swear by my sword.
Good Lord for alliance!
We shall further think on ’t.
My lord, whoever journeys to the prince, For God’s sake let not us two at home.
But upon the fairest boughs, Or at every sentence end, Will I “Rosalinda” write, Teaching all that read to know The quintessence of every sprite Heaven would in little show.
Thou shalt not live, That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies, And sleep in spite of thunder.
I prithee let me hear it.
If Caesar had stabbed their mothers they would have done no less.
What, think you we are Turks or infidels?
How now, sir?
No, my good knight.
Or who pronounced The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death Before I be convict by course of law?
Rage, blow!
Where is she?
Hast thou slain Tybalt?
Then she is well, and nothing can be ill.
Oh, is that all?
Sometime I’d divide, And burn in many places.
Therefore prepare you.
To our house.
But it is no matter.
His roguish madness Allows itself to any thing.
I have fair meanings, sir.
For do but stand upon the foaming shore, The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds, The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane, Seems to cast water on the burning bear, And quench the guards of th' ever-fixèd pole.
Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the operation of your sun.
We, ignorant of ourselves, Beg often our own harms, which the wise powers Deny us for our good, so find we profit By losing of our prayers.
Poor man!
I robbed his wound of it.
Why, i' faith, methinks she’s too low for a high praise, too brown for a fair praise, and too little for a great praise.
Hath an argosy cast away coming from Tripolis.
Question enrages him.
I feel this pinprick.
I am not so reputed!
Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.
Marry, God forbid!
Do I speak you fair?
Which soon he granted, Being an obstruct ’tween his lust and him.
I never did her any, to my knowledge.
She is dead.
Let me endure your wrath, if ’t be not so.
I know the man.
I, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated To closeness and the bettering of my mind With that which, but by being so retired, O'erprized all popular rate, in my false brother Awaked an evil nature.
Your eyes are lodestars, and your tongue’s sweet air More tunable than lark to shepherd’s ear When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear.
Go bring the rabble, O'er whom I give thee power, here to this place.
And I pray God grant them a fair departure.
O, fear me not.
We three are married, but you two are sped.
Their course of love, the tidings of her death.
O proper stuff!
Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
The very head and front of my offending Hath this extent, no more.
The next Caesarion smite, Till by degrees the memory of my womb, Together with my brave Egyptians all, By the discandying of this pelleted storm Lie graveless till the flies and gnats of Nile Have buried them for prey!
And to sink in it, should you burthen love— Too great oppression for a tender thing.
I’ll send my prayers with him.
You know that you are Brutus that speak this, Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last.
I called thee then “vain flourish of my fortune.” I called thee then poor shadow, “painted queen,” The presentation of but what I was, The flattering index of a direful pageant, One heaved a-high, to be hurled down below, A mother only mocked with two fair babes, A dream of what thou wast, a garish flag To be the aim of every dangerous shot, A sign of dignity, a breath, a bubble, A queen in jest, only to fill the scene.
Ay, sir, for three months.
If thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.—How now, nuncle?
Tell us where ’tis, that we may take it thence And bear it to the chapel.
So she may live unscarred of bleeding slaughter, I will confess she was not Edward’s daughter.
So when he opens his purse to give us our reward, thy conscience flies out.
Alas, I took great pains to study it, and ’tis poetical.
Go you, call hither my fool.
Speak, my fair, and fairly, I pray thee.
Use Desdemona well.
Officers, what offense have these men done?
You received no gold?
And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law, Then, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
Thither he Will come to know his destiny.
For, as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man loose-wived, so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded.
Hast thou the flower there?
But you’ll lie like dogs, and yet say nothing neither. 
Then must you speak Of one that loved not wisely, but too well.
Give me particulars.
His wits are gone.
Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
It hath no tongue to vex you.
And you, sir, for this chain arrested me.
The bounty and the benison of heaven To boot and boot.
O, quicken them with thine!
Amen!
Ah, do not tear away thyself from me!
I could well forbear ’t.
If she find him not, To England send him or confine him where Your wisdom best shall think.
Do not think, gentlemen, I am drunk.
In his tail.
What paper were you reading?
How have you made division of yourself?
Thy evil spirit, Brutus.
An if your wife be not a madwoman, And know how well I have deserved the ring, She would not hold out enemy forever For giving it to me.
Look you here, Here is himself, marred, as you see, with traitors.  
What’s he that wishes so?
It is needful that you frame the season for your own harvest.
Good sir, be patient.
Send the deed after me, And I will sign it.
To thine and Albany’s issue Be this perpetual.—What says our second daughter, Our dearest Regan, wife of Cornwall?
O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
You taught me first to beg, and now methinks You teach me how a beggar should be answered.
And neither man nor master would take aught But the two rings.
How came she by that light?
Ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right.
Within this three mile may you see it coming; I say, a moving grove.
And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse Why at this time the doors are made against you.
Take some remembrance of us as a tribute, Not as a fee.
I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.
My fairy lord, this must be done with haste.
Turn from me then that noble countenance Wherein the worship of the whole world lies.
Strives in his little world of man to outscorn The to-and-fro–conflicting wind and rain.
And may, through all the world!
Well aimed of such a young one.
Farewell.
And I have met a gentleman Hath promised me to help me to another, A fine musician to instruct our mistress.
That you shall surely find him, Lead to the Sagittary the raisèd search, And there will I be with him.
Here comes two of the banished duke’s pages.
Who is ’t that hinders you?
Horses are tied by the heads, dogs and bears by the neck, monkeys by the loins, and men by the legs.
Where is he?
Nay, the dust Should have ascended to the roof of heaven, Raised by your populous troops.
Hail to thee, lady, and the grace of heaven, Before, behind thee, and on every hand, Enwheel thee round!
Dost thou forget From what a torment I did free thee?
Thou hast seen these signs.
O royal Caesar!
Alas the day!
Happy the parents of so fair a child.
Well, think of marriage now.
Thou art a lady.
Let us be sacrificers but not butchers, Caius.
You must away tonight.
My daughter!
I will proclaim my name about the field.
Pardon me, I pray you.
Ay, for the state, not for Antonio.
A right good markman!
By my troth, I would not undertake her in this company.
Hark, canst thou hear me?
A vengeance on your crafty withered hide!
And all the faith, the virtue of my heart, The object and the pleasure of mine eye, Is only Helena.
No, madam, no.
Come, my sweet Kate.
Your face, my thane, is as a book where men May read strange matters.
As woman’s love.
What he hath uttered I have writ my sister.
But, till the king come forth, and not till then, Unto Southampton do we shift our scene.
I have seen you gleeking and galling at this gentleman twice or thrice.
I have heard it over, And it is nothing, nothing in the world— Unless you can find sport in their intents, Extremely stretched and conned with cru 'l pain To do you service.
You do mistake your business.
Let him greet England with our sharp defiance.
You shall, my lord.
You forget yourself To hedge me in.
What of that?
You are i' the right, sir, ’tis for my mistress.
And, being done, thus Wall away doth go.
You shall have some part of your will.
Therefore,  Go, clear thy crystals.—Yoke-fellows in arms, Let us to France, like horse-leeches, my boys, To suck, to suck, the very blood to suck.
He has brave utensils—for so he calls them— Which when he has a house, he’ll deck withal.
Therefore in my presence still smile, dear my sweet, I prithee.” 
She turned to folly, and she was a whore.
Was he not companion with the riotous knights That tend upon my father?
How have the hours racked and tortured me Since I have lost thee!
My Lord High Constable, the English lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents.
What if it come to thee again?
Therefore take heed how you impawn our person, How you awake our sleeping sword of war.
My hearty friends, You take me in too dolorous a sense, For I spake to you for your comfort, did desire you To burn this night with torches.
I was enforced to send it after him.
Come one more.
No.
Bring us the letter.
I think the best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence, and discourse grow commendable in none only but parrots.
It is impossible they bear it out.
Answer every man directly.
Oh, that exceeds, they say.
So will I turn her virtue into pitch And out of her own goodness make the net That shall enmesh them all.
Time, thou anticipat’st my dread exploits.
It wearies me; you say it wearies you.
Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me.
She cannot deny it.
So it should be, that none but Antony Should conquer Antony, but woe ’tis so!
How long have you been a sectary astronomical?
Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.
But that still use of grief makes wild grief tame, My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys Till that my nails were anchored in thine eyes, And I, in such a desp'rate bay of death, Like a poor bark of sails and tackling reft, Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom.
When you have spoken your speech, enter into that brake.—And so everyone according to his cue.
What news with you, sir?
So the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
Let us hear what Antony can say.
My suit to her Is that she will to virtuous Desdemona Procure me some access.
What are you?
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
What are you then determinèd to do?
A sweet woman!
It is concluded.
Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
Now, Charmian!
Why comest thou?
Ratcliffe, about the mid of night come to my tent And help to arm me.
Am I a coward?
These babes for Clarence weep and so do I; I for an Edward weep; so do not they.
Yet in faith, if you did, it would not much approve me.
I pray you tell me.
Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca.
The fellow has good judgment.
Feeling so the loss, Cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
Too well, too well.
Not when I saw ’t.
Oh, curse of marriage That we can call these delicate creatures ours And not their appetites!
In such a night Did pretty Jessica, like a little shrew, Slander her love, and he forgave it her.
Howling attends it.
Look, here she comes.
Set down your venerable burden, And let him feed.
Twill be a good way, and tomorrow the wrestling is.
Let be.
Saw you no more?
An you part so, mistress, I would I might never draw sword again.
They do offend our sight.
Oh, that we now had here But one ten thousand of those men in England That do no work today.
To get his place and to plume up my will In double knavery.
So God sa' me, ’tis shame to stand still.
I am much bound to you.
To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how thou findest him.
The herb I showed thee once.
Why?
Here comes the man, sir, that did rescue me.
Amen to that, sweet powers!
I’ll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate.
O Regan, Goneril, Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all— Oh, that way madness lies.
One of them rates All that is won and lost.
Bind him, I say.
What, we have many goodly days to see!
O, rejoice Beyond a common joy, and set it down With gold on lasting pillars.
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio.
By so much the more shall I tomorrow be at the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall think my brother happy in having what he wishes for. 
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news, Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
Twas I, but ’tis not I. I do not shame To tell you what I was, since my conversion So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires.
O soft, sir!
I prithee name the time, but let it not Exceed three days.
But what trade art thou?
How does my royal lord?
Tucket Once more I come to know of thee, King Harry, If for thy ransom thou wilt now compound, Before thy most assurèd overthrow.
Help, ho!
I shall be constrained in ’t to call thee knave, knight. 
And what will you do now?
I almost die for food, and let me have it.
Who comes with her?
I warrant you, you shall find the ceremonies of the wars and the cares of it and the forms of it and the sobriety of it and the modesty of it to be otherwise.
The king and queen and all are coming down.
Which is that adversary?
Why, what’s the matter?
If every of your wishes had a womb, And fertile every wish, a million.
And while thou liv’st, dear Kate, take a fellow of plain and uncoined constancy, for he perforce must do thee right because he hath not the gift to woo in other places.
The what?
Throw my heart Against the flint and hardness of my fault, Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder And finish all foul thoughts.
Alack, what trouble Was I then to you!
And I do believe your Majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek upon Saint Tavy’s day. 
Good.
You do love my lord.
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
I did not think you could have been so angry.
A rarer spirit never Did steer humanity, but you gods will give us Some faults to make us men.
Sport royal, I warrant you.
I’ll be your foil, Laertes.
 “Don’t be afraid, Macbeth.
Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
Thus doth he force the swords of wicked men To turn their own points in their masters' bosoms.
Well, forward, forward!
What, must I come to you With five and twenty, Regan?
Up.
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
The gods reward your kindness!
Our general’s wife is now the general.
On, on, on, on, on!
O serpent heart hid with a flowering face!
He is a sick man that would speak with you.
It is a wise father that knows his own child.
Holla!
I cannot tell.
I cannot be so partial, Goneril, To the great love I bear you—      Pray you, content.
Here’s packing, with a witness, to deceive us all!
Why, what is that to you?
Please you, sir, Do not omit the heavy offer of it.
Thou bloodier villain Than terms can give thee out!
So do our vulgar drench their peasant limbs In blood of princes, and the wounded steeds Fret fetlock deep in gore, and with wild rage Yerk out their armèd heels at their dead masters, Killing them twice.
How am I false?
Master Malvolio?
Wherefore?
Better thou Hadst not been born than not t' have pleased me better.
Mine, and most of our fortunes tonight, shall be—drunk to bed.   
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch of holy bread.
Your servant shall do so.
Pish!
Therefore go with me.
Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber.
Too late, good Diomed.
Why, shall we turn to men?
Well, may you see things well done there.
Was Milan thrust from Milan, that his issue Should become kings of Naples?
Are you a comedian?
It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
Tell Antony Brutus is ta'en.
My being in Egypt, Caesar, what was ’t to you?
Take them in. 
If I gave them all my living, I’d keep my coxcombs myself.
Silence that dreadful bell, it frights the isle From her propriety.
We are yet but young in deed.
I gave my love a ring and made him swear Never to part with it.
Since the youth will not be entreated, his own peril on his forwardness.
Praised be God, and not our strength, for it!
I’ll to my rest.
The worm that’s fled Hath nature that in time will venom breed; No teeth for th' present.
It may be so, my lord.
 I’d rather be a poor villager than call myself a citizen of Rome under the hard conditions that this time is likely to put us through.
For the heavens, rouse up a brave mind,” says the fiend, “and run.” Well, my conscience, hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely to me, “My honest friend Launcelot, being an honest man’s son”—or rather an honest woman’s son, for indeed my father did something smack, something grow to.
Where?
Watch you tonight for the command, I’ll lay ’t upon you.
Tut, I like it not.
This is Illyria, lady.
I see thy age and dangers make thee dote.
Signor Antonio Commends him to you.
But who comes here?
Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knife’s point and choke a daw withal.
Myself have letters of the selfsame tenor.
Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you To leave this place.
Clubs, bills, and partisans!
Now I feed myself With most delicious poison.
As I descended?
If he ask for me, I am ill and gone to bed.
Oh, misery!
They shall be apprehended by and by.
Our hour  Is fully out.
I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it being so proper.
Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart, And she lies buried with her ancestors, Oh, in a tomb where never scandal slept Save this of hers, framed by thy villainy.
But I shall see The wingèd vengeance overtake such children.
Night hangs upon mine eyes.
What’s she?
Fair sir, I pity her And wish, for her sake more than for mine own, My fortunes were more able to relieve her.
Seven of my people, with an obedient start, make out for him.
This ring, good sir—alas, it is a trifle.
Or sleep I now and think I hear all this?
Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am but, as you would say, a cobbler.
This is some monster of the isle with four legs who hath got, as I take it, an ague.
What things are these, my lord Antonio?
Let him be the devil, an he will, I care not.
This is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet.
No.
I’ll not meddle with him.
My lord approaches.
So frowned he once when, in an angry parle, He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
Not to his father’s.
You know me by my habit.
And for my love I pray you wrong me not.
Pray you lead on.
I’ll speak a prophecy ere I go.
Pray you, keep seat.
My lord and you were then at Mantua.— Nay, I do bear a brain.—But, as I said, When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool, To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
Sebastian was my father; Such a Sebastian was my brother too, So went he suited to his watery tomb.
It is too rough, Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
I will not sup tonight.
His fault is much, and the good king his master Will check him for ’t.
I am sure of that.
My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon, And you, Sir Walter Herbert, stay with me.
Nothing is good, I see, without respect.
Why, would not you?
Marvelous sweet music!
I pitied thee, Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour One thing or other.
Farewell.
Now to you.
Do not presume too much upon my love.
I’ll rather dwell in my necessity.
My sight was ever thick.
Friendship is constant in all other things Save in the office and affairs of love.
You do not mind the play.
Fie upon thee!
How am I then a villain To counsel Cassio to this parallel course, Directly to his good?
You have not called me so, nor have you cause.
I am informèd thoroughly of the cause.
These things are beyond all use, And I do fear them.
Mistress, that you know.
Descend, brother, I say.
Then cursed she Hastings.
Go, then, for ’tis in vain To seek him here that means not to be found.
Give the word, ho, and stand.
Peace.—Who comes here?
A flatterer’s would not, though they do appear As huge as high Olympus.
He needs not.
Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?
Better Macbeth Than such an one to reign.
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
Why, how now, Juliet?
First he denied you had in him no right.
He ran this way and leapt this orchard wall.
Question
Did we, my lord?
Is it fit, The threefold world divided, he should stand One of the three to share it?
Go in, and weep not.
Your overkindness doth wring tears from me.
What’s he?
But better service have I never done you Than now to bid you hold.
Come, stir, stir, stir!
If I do die before thee, prithee, shroud me In one of these same sheets.
Had we fought, I doubt we should have been too young for them.
There is more in it.—Cousin Ganymede.
Let’s ha' ’t, good Grumio.
But though thou art adjudgèd to the death, And passèd sentence may not be recalled But to our honour’s great disparagement, Yet will I favor thee in what I can.
Will ’t please your Honor taste of these conserves?
I will talk further with you.
Let me see her.
This ’tis to feel a tale, not to hear a tale.
God’s will and His pleasure, Captain, I beseech you now, come apace to the king.
Farewell.
I cannot hide what I am.
Would I might But ever see that man!
Tell me what more thou know’st.
His counsel now might do me golden service.
Tomorrow then I will expect your coming.
But is there any else longs to see this broken music in his sides?
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
You speak not as you think.
It is my birthday.
When thou wakest, if she be by, Beg of her for remedy.
Take no offense that I would not offend you.
He hath been in unusual pleasure, and Sent forth great largess to your offices.
Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius, To cut the head off and then hack the limbs, Like wrath in death and envy afterwards, For Antony is but a limb of Caesar.
Know you him?
Make assay.
And now about the cauldron sing, Like elves and fairies in a ring, Enchanting all that you put in.
Hang him instantly.
No more than my residing here at Rome Might be to you in Egypt.
Ay, his breast.
Madam, I’ll take my leave.
Marry, this is miching 
A Cornish name.
Is this your speeding?
I thank your Honor.
I pause for a reply.
If I do not put on a sober habit, Talk with respect and swear but now and then, Wear prayer books in my pocket, look demurely— Nay more.
I was the other day talking on the sea-bank with certain Venetians, and thither comes the bauble and, by this hand, she falls me thus about my neck— Crying “O dear Cassio!” as it were.
He could not have ’scaped sixpence a day.
Oh, my fortunes have Corrupted honest men!
My noble lord— What dost thou say, Iago?
Oh, but she’ll keep her word.
Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.
Oh, now forever Farewell the tranquil mind!
Ere I learn love, I’ll practice to obey.
Where is Metellus Cimber?
Let them go.
O brother Montague, give me thy hand.
But I can tell why a snail has a house.
Hail!
Sir, no.
They are louder than the weather or our office.
If you do fight against your country’s foes, Your country’s fat shall pay your pains the hire.
God’s peace, I would not lose so great an honor As one man more, methinks, would share from me, For the best hope I have.
Call Claudio and some other of my men.
I’ll put it on.
But speak, Egeus.
Yes, you are.
 he is in love.
Stop in your wind, sir.
I am not so well as I should be, but I’ll ne’er out.
And mine shall.
Be that thou know’st thou art, and then thou art As great as that thou fear’st.
He loves me well, and I have given him reasons.
Let me go, sir, or I’ll knock you o'er the mazzard.
I heard him swear his affection.
For the meat, sir, it shall be covered.
Sick, oh, sick!
I beg for justice, which thou, Prince, must give.
Speak!
I am paid for ’t now.
Hie you to horse.
Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice?
I say thou hast belied mine innocent child.
Oh, he hath murdered his master!
They steal hearts.
O, ’tis a parlous boy, Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable.
Well, we’ll see ’t.
Oh, treble woe Fall ten times treble on that cursèd head, Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense Deprived thee of!
He is not very tall—yet for his years he’s tall.
Poor Turlygod!” “Poor Tom!”— That’s something yet.
It was.
What is your will?
Nor none that live, I hope.
Master, master!
Promise me life, and I’ll confess the truth.
Here, sir, but trouble him not.
I charge thee, tempt me not.
We may effect this business yet ere day.
My industrious servant, Ariel!
He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to such a man.
A wretched soul, bruised with adversity We bid be quiet when we hear it cry, But were we burdened with like weight of pain, As much or more we should ourselves complain.
What claim lays she to thee?
The venom of such looks, we fairly hope, Have lost their quality, and that this day Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
And for my means, I’ll husband them so well, They shall go far with little.
Away with the joint-stools, remove the court-cupboard, look to the plate.
You a man?
O God’s lady dear, Are you so hot?
Good night to you.
 the valiant Paris wants you as his bride.
Light!
I say my daughter is my flesh and blood.
And did not she herself revile me there?
Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?
Where learned you this, Fool?
I’ll to dinner.
Dismiss your attendant there, look ’t be done.
And welcome more common, for that’s nothing but words.
I understand not what you mean by this.
Came he not home tonight?
There, where the torch doth burn.
No “master,” sir, but a poor man’s son.
It is called Wye at Monmouth, but it is out of my prains what is the name of the other river.
Home, you idle creatures get you home!
Oh, heaven, how got she out?
How much low peasantry would then be gleaned From the true seed of honor!
Were you a woman, as the rest goes even, I should my tears let fall upon your cheek And say “Thrice-welcome, drownèd Viola!” My father had a mole upon his brow.
She loves me, sure!
Tis a blushing, shamefaced spirit that mutinies in a man’s bosom.
His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge.
Did not her kitchen maid rail, taunt, and scorn me?
Directly, I am going to Caesar’s funeral.
Marry, sir, we say we are none.
Nor will you not tell me who you are?
I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord.
But fare ye well.
A man, sir.
When it concerns the fool or coward.
Oh, I followed that I blush to look upon!
Pray you sit still.
Marry, sir, they have committed false report; moreover, they have spoken untruths; secondarily, they are slanders; sixth and lastly, they have belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified unjust things; and, to conclude, they are lying knaves.
I speak not this that you should bear a good opinion of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you are.
Is ’t gone?
On Thursday, sir?
Yet he looks successfully.
This jest shall cost me some expense.
Is there any way to show such friendship?
Look down, you gods, And on this couple drop a blessèd crown, For it is you that have chalked forth the way Which brought us hither.
The devil speaks in him.
Where is thy leather apron and thy rule?
But I will tell you at some meeter season.
The itch of his affection should not then Have nicked his captainship at such a point When half to half the world opposed, he being The merèd question.
All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand.
Hear me, good madam.
O noble English, that could entertain With half their forces the full pride of France And let another half stand laughing by, All out of work and cold for action!
Shall I do such a deed?
I deny it not.
Tis not the first time you were overshot.
And now they do re-stem Their backward course, bearing with frank appearance Their purposes toward Cyprus.
I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio.
Call 'em.
Or rather, do thy pleasure.
An’t please your Honor, players That offer service to your Lordship.
It was mine art, When I arrived and heard thee, that made gape The pine and let thee out.
Scratch my head, Peaseblossom.
Yea, my good lord.
Fulvia thy wife first came into the field.
What, the chain?
Nor I neither.
Relent?
What, in my sight?—Bianca, get thee in.
On him I lay what you would lay on me, The right and fortune of his happy stars, Which God defend that I should wring from him.
We must die, Messala.
Dromio, what stuff of mine hast thou embarked?
I your servant.
Hail to your lordship.
All schooldays' friendship, childhood innocence?
Here’s that, I warrant you, will pay them all.
An I do not— Come, let’s see the event.
O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio is dead!
Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.
I think we do know the sweet Roman hand.
Being so frustrate, tell him, he mocks The pauses that he makes.
Their malady convinces The great assay of art, but at his touch— Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand— They presently amend.
Well, time is the old justice that examines all such offenders, and let time try.
But saying o'er what I have said before.
Sir, there is especial commission come from Venice to depute Cassio in Othello’s place.
Not I, believe me.
Where shall we meet i' th' morning?
I would have sworn it had, my lord, especially against Benedick.
Do you not remember he saw a flea stick upon Bardolph’s nose, and he said it was a black soul burning in hell?
Such duty as the subject owes the prince, Even such a woman oweth to her husband.
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
That’s all.
When thou dost ask me blessing, I’ll kneel down And ask of thee forgiveness.
Wilt thou have me?
Well, masters, we hear our charge.
May you stead me?
Thus we are agreed.
We know what belongs to a watch.
Thou dost mean something.
Your power and your command is taken off And Cassio rules in Cyprus.
No, let me not.
Peaseblossom.
They are wise and honorable, And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you.
So turns she every man the wrong side out And never gives to truth and virtue that Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none.
Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate To grace it with your sorrows.
Not a whit.
And that most deeply to consider is The beauty of his daughter.
Take up my mistress' gown for thy master’s use!
Andrew Aguecheek” 
The prayers of holy saints and wrongèd souls, Like high-reared bulwarks, stand before our faces.
To plainness honor’s bound When majesty falls to folly.
On what occasion God He knows, not I, The queen your mother and your brother York Have taken sanctuary.
In the way of argument, look you, and friendly communication, partly to satisfy my opinion, and partly for the satisfaction, look you, of my mind, as touching the direction of the military discipline, that is the point.
Thou hast seen a farmer’s dog bark at a beggar?
Speak your office.
Round, even to faultiness.
Normans, but bastard Normans, Norman bastards!
Who’s gone this morning?
Oh, pardon me, Signior Gremio, I would fain be doing.
By heaven, I do not, I do not, gentlemen.—   O murderous coxcomb!
Stand, you neat slave, strike!
Though their injunction be to bar my doors And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you, Yet have I ventured to come seek you out And bring you where both fire and food is ready.
But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladies have lost?
Well, my lord.
The better that your Lordship please to ask.
And I must Rid all the sea of pirates, then, to send Measures of wheat to Rome.
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart a thing to you from His Majesty.
Be large in mirth.
Tis a world to see, How tame, when men and women are alone, A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.— Give me thy hand, Kate.
Was ever match clapped up so suddenly?
His affections do not that way tend.
Art thou a churchman?
He is not doubted.—A word, Lucillius.
And, as you said (and wisely was it said) 'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother— Since nature makes them partial—should o'erhear The speech, of vantage.
How?
What tributaries follow him to Rome To grace in captive bonds his chariot wheels?
Come, will you go with me?
What, man?
Let this fellow Be nothing of our strife.
More of this matter cannot I report.
Or if thou follow me, do not believe But I shall do thee mischief in the wood.
The third o’ th’ world is yours, which with a snaffle You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
Here is everything advantageous to life.
Art thou good at these kickshawses, knight?
Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come, As we do trace this alley up and down, Our talk must only be of Benedick.
Tomorrow shall you know our mind at full.
I am he.
This castle hath a pleasant seat.
Fire and brimstone!
Nothing, unless you render her again.
Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts, Though enemy, lost aim and could not?
I am a king, my masters, know you that?
I must away this night toward Padua, And it is meet I presently set forth.
My dear lord, You know the fiery quality of the duke, How unremoveable and fixed he is In his own course.
Seal then, and all is done.— Eros!—I come, my Queen.—Eros!—Stay for me.
So Caesar may.
The time has been That, when the brains were out, the man would die, And there an end.
Wilt thou be gone?
Well, go to.
Not if the small come first.
When beggars die there are no comets seen.
Pisa, renownèd for grave citizens, Gave me my being and my father first, A merchant of great traffic through the world, Vincentio, come of the Bentivolii.
Give me my robe.
Upon his royal face there is no note How dread an army hath enrounded him, Nor doth he dedicate one jot of color Unto the weary and all-watchèd night, But freshly looks and overbears attaint With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty, That every wretch, pining and pale before, Beholding him, plucks comfort from his looks.
Why, sweet Othello—   I have not deserved this.
A beggar, brother?
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
A good wench, give it me.
Take not her part.
Let me alone.
Do you hear?
Only I say Things have been strangely borne.
I will not speak with her.
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors.
What is his strength by land?
We will here part.
Be not lost So poorly in your thoughts.
O nuncle, court holy water in a dry house is better than this rainwater out o' door.
It was about to speak when the cock crew.
In the meantime I will draw a bill of properties such as our play wants.
Descend, for you must be my torchbearer.
Out o' tune, sir.
I would cure you if you would but call me Rosalind and come every day to my cote and woo me.
Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?
Nay, we will slink away in supper time, Disguise us at my lodging, and return, All in an hour.
What did you enact?
Proceed.
Oh, the heavens!
I knew you at the first You were a moveable.
You keep by land The legions and the horse whole, do you not?
So do not I.
Adieu, good neighbor.
God and his angels guard your sacred throne And make you long become it.
Why then, to thee, thou silver treasure house.
There is no more to say?
Sure we thank you.
Can virtue hide itself?
Tis bargained ’twixt us twain, being alone, That she shall still be curst in company.
Lay them in gore, Since you have shore With shears his thread of silk.
So-so” is good, very good, very excellent good.
Good madonna, give me leave to prove you a fool.
I cannot be a man with wishing, therefore I will die a woman with grieving.
Sneck up!
I grant I am a woman, but withal A woman well-reputed, Cato’s daughter.
Go in, and tell my lady I am gone, Having displeased my father, to Lawrence’s cell To make confession and to be absolved.
This dream is all amiss interpreted.
Why is my lord enraged against his love?
I know not if ’t be true, But I, for mere suspicion in that kind, Will do as if for surety.
And of the heat of the ginger.
About the ninth hour, lady.
Besides, his cote, his flocks, and bounds of feed Are now on sale, and at our sheepcote now, By reason of his absence, there is nothing That you will feed on.
You have astonished him.
I have heard him read many lectures against it, and I thank God I am not a woman, to be touched with so many giddy offenses as he hath generally taxed their whole sex withal.
My master’s.
That dreamers often lie.
You know I gave it you even now.
Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear, As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere.
Every inordinate cup is unblessed and the ingredient is a devil.
And you are come in very happy time To bear my greeting to the senators And tell them that I will not come today.
We would not die in that man’s company That fears his fellowship to die with us.
You’ll win two days upon me.
Down, and swear.
Sweet mistress—what your name is else I know not, Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine,—
Though that the queen on special cause is here, Her army is moved on.
Before you hazard, for in choosing wrong I lose your company.
I hear it now above me.
Tis said they eat each other.
He gives you upon his knees a thousand thanks, and he esteems himself happy that he hath fall'n into the hands of one, as he thinks, the most brave, valorous, and thrice- worthy seigneur of England.
Ay, my lord.
Alas, who knows?
They must be bound and laid in some dark room.
Far more, far more, to you do I decline.
 should I feel loyal to the Moor?
Not in a grave, To lay one in, another out to have.
He has killed me, mother.
For you see, it is already in snuff.
But to read his right wits is to read thus.
Ha, Portia?
Where?
Avoid, and leave him.
A goodly one, in which there are many confines, wards, and dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
My estate is very low.
For my Lord Lackbeard there, he and I shall meet, and till then peace be with him.
The more I hate, the more he follows me.
Croak not, black angel.
O, grief hath changed me since you saw me last, And careful hours with time’s deformèd hand Have written strange defeatures in my face.
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart.
Return to her, and fifty men dismissed?
How shall that faith return again to earth, Unless that husband send it me from heaven By leaving earth?
Make thee a fortune from me.
Had our general Been what he knew himself, it had gone well.
If thou speak’st false, Upon the next tree shall thou hang alive Till famine cling thee.
He is now in some commerce with my lady and will by and by depart.
He dies that strikes again.
Mistress, your father prays you leave your books And help to dress your sister’s chamber up.
Here, at thy hand.
Therefore heaven nature charged That one body should be filled With all graces wide-enlarged.
Prithee, peace.
For shame, put on your gown.
There.
There rust and let me die.
Set on thy wife to observe.
No, uncle, but our crosses on the way Have made it tedious, wearisome, and heavy.
Give me,”      quoth I.
Signor, you are very near my brother in his love.
The day is yours.
Rescue, fair lord, or else the day is lost!
I will, my lord.
Discuss unto me
There lock yourself and send him word you are dead.
And, I think, if my breast had not been made of faith, and my heart of steel, She had transformed me to a curtal dog and made me turn i' th' wheel.
My parts, my title, and my perfect soul Shall manifest me rightly.
The same indeed, a very valiant fellow.
If he do blench, I know my course.
I will be hanged else!
A better instance, I say.
I hope he is, but yet let mothers doubt.
Nay, then.
Do not so.
Where is he?
That eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh To raise my fortunes.
Canst thou bring me to th' party?
Lady, amen.
I’ll board him presently.
Breathe Merriman, the poor cur is embossed, And couple Clowder with the deep-mouthed brach.
Why, what’s the matter?
My more particular, And that which most with you should safe my going, Is Fulvia’s death.
Alas, poor country!
How died my master, Strato?
In this slumbery agitation, besides her walking and other actual performances, what, at any time, have you heard her say?
True.
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a good kissing carrion— Have you a daughter?
For, look you, how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
I would not spare my brother in this case If he should scorn me so apparently.
Why do you cross me in this exigent?
Alas, poor caitiff!
O thou public commoner!
Where we lay, Our chimneys were blown down and, as they say, Lamentings heard i' th' air, strange screams of death, And prophesying with accents terrible Of dire combustion and confused events New hatched to the woeful time.
Love’s not love When it is mingled with regards that stands Aloof from th' entire point.
Fair Katherine, and most fair, Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms Such as will enter at a lady’s ear And plead his love suit to her gentle heart?
A plague o' both your houses!
You shall close prisoner rest Till that the nature of your fault be known To the Venetian state.—Come, bring him away.
Tis so; and that self chain about his neck Which he forswore most monstrously to have.
He only lived but till he was a man, The which no sooner had his prowess confirmed In the unshrinking station where he fought, But like a man he died.
Methinks I should know you, and know this man.
Thy grace shall have it.
I will none of your money.
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her own defense?
But now behold, In the quick forge and workinghouse of thought, How London doth pour out her citizens.
Hero that is dead!
A very dishonest paltry boy, and more a coward than a hare.
I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see the puppets dallying.
What will hap more tonight, safe ’scape the king!
Lord, how art thou changed!
Call you this “gamut”?
Good my lord, enter.
And how doth she?
Sir, I commend you to your own content.
Then shall we find tomorrow they have only stomachs to eat and none to fight.
Come, mistress Kate, I’ll bear you company.
He is wise, And, on my life, hath stol'n him home to bed.
And when please you to say so?
He’s a very fool and a prodigal.
Men at some time are masters of their fates.
Haste me to know ’t, that I, with wings as swift As meditation or the thoughts of love, May sweep to my revenge.
I do not, till you practice them on me.
That I beheld.
Strike!
Ay, that’s the way.
Follow me, then.
He did bespeak a chain for me but had it not.
I dare lay any money ’twill be nothing yet.
Come, come and take a queen Worth many babes and beggars!
How fares our cousin Hamlet?
Sir, you say well, and well you do conceive.
Worthy prince, I know ’t.
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites.
How far’st thou, soldier?
For I am Trinculo—be not afeard—thy good friend Trinculo.
You may, sir.
Is now become a god, and Cassius is A wretched creature and must bend his body If Caesar carelessly but nod on him.
Pardon not that.
If he have never drunk wine afore, it will go near to remove his fit.
I warrant you, sir, The white cold virgin snow upon my heart Abates the ardor of my liver.
O Cassius, Brutus gave the word too early, Who, having some advantage on Octavius, Took it too eagerly.
Fear not, my lord.
Gentle cousin, Let us go thank him and encourage him.
My words are as full of peace as matter.
But have you both forsworn me?
Nay, good Sir Toby.
If not, to say to thee that I shall die is true, but for thy love, by the Lord, no.
The knave counterfeits well.
O, then be bold to say Bassanio’s dead!
Let me know.
That is the chain, sir, which you had of me.
Farewell.
Fare thee well.
The shame itself doth speak For instant remedy.
We see how mortal an unkindness is to them.
A third cannot be matched unless the devil himself turn Jew.
Let me go with you.
Tis most true, And he beseeched me to entreat your Majesties To hear and see the matter.
Bring him silently.
Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey.
O Lord, methought what pain it was to drown, What dreadful noise of waters in my ears, What sights of ugly death within my eyes.
I am ashamèd I did yield to them.
Go, you cot-quean, go.
Good night, Lord Brutus.
Alack, my lord, what do you mean by that?
What mean’st thou by that?
And I beseech you come again tomorrow.
I am sorry.
Farewell, my dearest sister, fare thee well.
How quickly the wrong side may be turned outward!
We doubt not now But every rub is smoothèd on our way.
Tybalt, the kinsman to old Capulet, Hath sent a letter to his father’s house.
Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
Why, you must not speak that yet.
What is it that you would impart to me?
Farewell, everyone.
Romeo must not live.
Have you heard of no likely wars toward ’twixt the two Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?
This villain of mine comes under the prediction—there’s son against father.
And wherefore are you gentle, strong, and valiant?
Rapier and dagger.
So I to her and so she yields to me, For I am rough and woo not like a babe.
I wonder what it bodes.
Why, then, let them alone till they are sober.
Ay, my good lord.
Now have I done a good day’s work.
I’ll rest.
Where is he?
We have not made good preparation.
If I could make that resemble something in me—Softly!
Oh, then we bring forth weeds When our quick minds lie still, and our ills told us Is as our earing.
I would kiss before I spoke.
Unbutton here.
What does he say of Brutus?
She’s not well married that lives married long, But she’s best married that dies married young.
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
If thou didst it, thou art the nonpareil.
And leave out thee?
O, how we joy to see your wit restored!
Your bedchamber.
Think’st thou I jest?
He no more shall see my face.
Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing.
In voices well divulged, free, learned, and valiant; And in dimension and the shape of nature A gracious person.
Not having that which, having, makes them short.
Name him.
 Antony or I?
I pray thee, mark me.
Welcome.
Your name, sir, truly.
My lord!
Fourscore ducats at a sitting!
Thou told’st me Thou didst hold him in thy hate.
Will not he?
By heaven, it is the same I gave the doctor!
Tis pity of him.
Despair, and die!
If you deny them, all the land will rue it.
This wedding day Perhaps is but prolonged.
Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?
Ay, with a twink.
My lord?
An Englishman?
Myself and what is mine to you and yours Is now converted.
This is the very ecstasy of love, Whose violent property fordoes itself And leads the will to desperate undertakings As oft as any passion under heaven That does afflict our natures.
Had I as many mouths as Hydra, such an answer would stop them all.
Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
If we, with thrice such powers left at home, Cannot defend our own doors from the dog, Let us be worried, and our nation lose The name of hardiness and policy.
Yet I hate not Orlando.
So said, so done, is well.
If his cause be wrong, our obedience to the king wipes the crime of it out of us.
Keep close, I thee command.
For, my good liege, she is so idly kinged, Her scepter so fantastically borne By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth, That fear attends her not.
Oh, that I were a man!
Sir, sooth to say, you did not dine at home.
Still be kind And eke out our performance with your mind.
How?
How now, mistress?
Kill Claudio.
Take thy face hence.
I’ll drink for you.
I would not hear your enemy say so, Nor shall you do mine ear that violence, To make it truster of your own report Against yourself.
Make a short shrift.
He is very well-favored, and he speaks very shrewishly.
How do you all at Verona?
One draught above heat makes him a fool, the second mads him, and a third drowns him.
She’s an excellent sweet lady, and, out of all suspicion, she is virtuous.
So I charmed their ears That, calflike, they my lowing followed through Toothed briers, sharp furzes, pricking gorse, and thorns, Which entered their frail shins.
We must incline to the king.
Bear hence this body and attend our will.
Ha!
Hang out our banners on the outward walls.
When ’s god’s asleep, he’ll rob his bottle.
I durst, my lord, to wager she is honest, Lay down my soul at stake.
But for the bloody napkin?
Art thou of Cornish crew?
But goes thy heart with this?
What, has his daughters brought him to this pass?— Couldst thou save nothing?
Are there balance here to weigh The flesh?
It goes not forward.
Had we done so at first, we had droven them home With clouts about their heads.
He is attended with a desperate train.
I have not seen such a firago.
I’ll call Sir Toby the whilst.
As for my wife, I would you had her spirit in such another.
The story is extant, and writ in choice Italian.
I will fetch him.
Farewell.
Stay, gentle Helena.
So every bondman in his own hand bears The power to cancel his captivity.
Farewell.
Goes Fleance with you?
And in the morn I’ll bring you to your ship and so to Naples, Where I have hope to see the nuptial Of these our dear-belovèd solemnized, And thence retire me to my Milan, where Every third thought shall be my grave.
Sir, the gods Will have it thus.
God’s bodykins, man, much better.
We have consented to all terms of reason.
What wilt thou do?
I would have had thee there and here again Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there.
Out upon you!
O ill-dispersing wind of misery!
The mariners all under hatches stowed, Who, with a charm joined to their suffered labor, I have left asleep.
Alack, poor gentleman!
But beshrew my jealousy!
Ay, master.
Let him alone, for I remember now How he’s employed.
I pray you, husband, be not so disquiet.
God’s my life, where’s the Sexton?
Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have Some patient leisure to excuse myself.
What wouldst thou with us?
Thy adversary’s wife doth pray for thee.
My niece is already in the belief that he’s mad.
Sure, I shall never marry like my sisters, To love my father all.
In such a night as this, When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees And they did make no noise, in such a night Troilus methinks mounted the Trojan walls And sighed his soul toward the Grecian tents Where Cressid lay that night.
Whither should they come?
Hence!
There is one within, Besides the things that we have heard and seen, Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.
This is as strange a maze as e'er men trod, And there is in this business more than nature Was ever conduct of.
Would that he were gone!
The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds Of wide Arabia are as thoroughfares now For princes to come view fair Portia.
If the cat will after kind, So, be sure, will Rosalind.
How say you by the French lord, Monsieur le Bon?
Then, good my lord, teach your cousin to consent winking.
Nay, that’s not so.
No more be done.
Here comes his Majesty.
Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?
So art thou to revenge when thou shalt hear.
Till then, think of the world.
Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions?
Behold!
May ’t please your Majesty to give us leave Freely to render what we have in charge, Or shall we sparingly show you far off The Dauphin’s meaning and our embassy?
Ay, I do.
By no means, sir.
Desist, and drink.
Tis with him in standing water, between boy and man.
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet.
It becomes The thronèd monarch better than his crown.
And so, without more circumstance at all, I hold it fit that we shake hands and part.
Stay not, be gone.
Tis one Iago, ancient to the general.
I will verify as much in his beard.
Pray you, let Cassio be received again.
O thou foul thief, where hast thou stowed my daughter?
Go to, carry this.
Nor I, my lord.
A parlous boy!
Well, let it strike.
Th' affair cries haste And speed must answer it.
You shall try but one fall.
That very time I saw (but thou couldst not) Flying between the cold moon and the Earth, Cupid all armed.
My sword, I say!
Enough.
Cursed be thy stones for thus deceiving me!
Tell him he shall not speak with me.
I think so, Charmian.
Come on, sir knave, have done your foolishness, And tell me how thou hast disposed thy charge.
Faith, none but Humfrey Hower, that called your Grace To breakfast once, forth of my company.
Who knows not he is dead!
Sink Rome!
I was too young that time to value her, But now I know her.
I know not which is which.
Did not you speak?
How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks?
Alas, the storm is come again!
Inquire me out some mean poor gentleman, Whom I will marry straight to Clarence' daughter.
I think I did, sir.
Why in that rawness left you wife and child, Those precious motives, those strong knots of love, Without leave-taking?
Go, hang yourselves all!
I grant him bloody, Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful, Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin That has a name.
What?
I’ll do the service of a younger man In all your business and necessities.
Edmund I think is gone In pity of his misery to dispatch His nighted life; moreover to descry The strength o' th' enemy.
Where’s your father?
Even he.
Gratiano!
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars But in ourselves, that we are underlings.
My face I’ll grime with filth, Blanket my loins, elf all my hair in knots, And with presented nakedness outface The winds and persecutions of the sky.
Good night, good Captain Blunt.
Lord, how it looks about!
Is not the leaf turned down Where I left reading?
Peace!
Go a little before.
Masters, masters—   warrant you.
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes.
Sir, you are very welcome to our house.
Perchance she cannot meet him.
You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so, And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it.
How?
What’s your will?
Touching this vision here, It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
That way the noise is.
I will not do them wrong.
Yonder sure they are coming.
Do you know him?
I will not hold thee long.
So, fare thee well.
Behold this man.
I will go before, sir.— Mistress, look out at window, for all this.
Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.” “As much as he deserves!”—pause there, Morocco, And weigh thy value with an even hand.
Although I joy in thee, I have no joy of this contract tonight.
What is his name?
 you bring ewes and rams together and make your living by their copulation.
The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up Safe at the Centaur, and the heedful slave Is wandered forth, in care to seek me out.
Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord, That would reduce these bloody days again, And make poor England weep in streams of blood!
He has no children.
Oh, that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
And I, most jocund, apt, and willingly, To do you rest, a thousand deaths would die.
Farewell, good Charles.
Let him answer me.— Come, follow me, boy.
A Roman.
I have fled myself, and have instructed cowards To run and show their shoulders.
Best safety lies in fear.
Will you hoist sail, sir?
Well are you welcome to the open air.
There’s magic in the web of it.
Oh, farewell!
Where is Montjoy the herald?
This, Decius Brutus.
Very well.
Peace, ho!
This you should pity rather than despise.
I have a ship Laden with gold.
If thy greatness will Revenge it on him—for I know thou darest, But this thing dare not— That’s most certain.
You should hear reason.
Prison, my lord?
Well shone, Moon!—Truly, the moon shines with a good grace.
What, Brutus?
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore.
Why, sir, her name’s a word, and to dally with that word might make my sister wanton.
My lord, in Athens.
Had I before known this young man his son, I should have given him tears unto entreaties Ere he should thus have ventured.
Oh, that we then could come by Caesar’s spirit And not dismember Caesar!
My lord and brother, God save you.
You have seen nothing then?
No, it begins again.
And so had mine.
Nay, by 'r Lady, that I think he cannot.
Tis strange that they should so depart from home, And not send back my messenger.
Because they are not eight?
I would therefore my sister had no name, sir.
Since I am crept in favor with myself, I will maintain it with some little cost.
A could never abide carnation.
What is Pyramus?
We will behold his death.
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slandered it.
Down, therefore, and beg mercy of the Duke.
He takes on him to understand so much, and therefore comes to speak with you.
Mark it, nuncle.
Pretty soul!
I have no more sons of the royal blood For thee to slaughter.
If she will stir hither, I shall seem to notify unto her.
What shall I say?
Here comes the good Macduff.
Till then, enough. 
In Sicyon.
If they have done this deed, my noble lord— If?
You are not, Cassius.
As great to me as late.
Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me.
I say it is the moon that shines so bright.
Good night, good night!
I was told that by one that knows him better than you.
I know thy constellation is right apt For this affair.
Didst thou see any thing?
I Richard’s body have interrèd anew, And on it have bestowed more contrite tears Than from it issued forcèd drops of blood.
Neighbors and friends, though bride and bridegroom wants For to supply the places at the table, You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
Come, my spade.
 she doesn’t want to add perjury to her list of sins.
I have told him, Lepidus was grown too cruel, That he his high authority abused And did deserve his change.
No!
Draw thy sword and give me Sufficing strokes for death.
What man was he talked with you yesternight Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
Why are you virtuous?
The time ’twixt six and now Must by us both be spent most preciously.
My father charged you in his will to give me good education.
Here’s a maze trod indeed Through forthrights and meanders.
It is a high-wrought flood.
Twice then the trumpets sounded, And there I left him tranced.
She that herself will sliver and disbranch From her material sap perforce must wither And come to deadly use.
It is Captain Macmorris, is it not?
Here.
Ill luck, ill luck?
I do, truly, for thou swear’st to me thou art honest.
The king, the king’s to blame.
Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
Why, thou hast put him in such a dream that when the image of it leaves him he must run mad. 
Cool it with a baboon’s blood, Then the charm is firm and good.
Dolabella!
Wouldst thou betray me?
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks.
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal, And you must put me in your heart for friend, Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear, That he which hath your noble father slain Pursued my life.
that claims marriage of me, i could find in my heart to stay here still, and turn witch.
They say he parted well and paid his score.
You must not deny me.
Fie, how impatience loureth in your face.
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind, Nor well, unless in mind.
If you go on thus, you will kill yourself, And ’tis not wisdom thus to second grief Against yourself.
He taught me how to know a man in love, in which cage of rushes I am sure you are not prisoner.
I prithee now, lead the way without any more talking.— Trinculo, the king and all our company else being drowned, we will inherit here.—Here, bear my bottle.—Fellow Trinculo, we’ll fill him by and by again. 
Dost thou hear, lady?
I have no exquisite reason for ’t, but I have reason good enough.
How now, Malvolio!
Because that, like a jack, thou keep’st the stroke Betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
If this fall into thy hand, revolve.
It’s the wind.
All three of them are desperate.
But I’ll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery.
Now, by Apollo— Now, by Apollo, King, Thou swear’st thy gods in vain.
A hundred then.
Then I’ll be brief.
Are they married, think you?
Do you see this, O God?
Should I have answered Caius Cassius so?
I hope the king made peace with all of us; And the compact is firm and true in me.
Nor I.
Sound, music!—Come, my queen, take hands with me, And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be.
Ay, madam, well, for I was bred and born Not three hours' travel from this very place.
The gallants desire it.
Too familiar Is my dear son with such sour company.
Sir, a whole history.
Consider then we come but in despite.
For there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths    in a glass.
Lend me a looking-glass.
Ancient, what makes he here?
The last of all the Romans, fare thee well!
In troth, I think I should, and undo ’t when I had done.
Why sinks that cauldron?
To me, sir?
Your hand, Leonato.
And of women.
Ish a villain and a basterd and a knave and a rascal.
Nothing, my lord.
I would not for the world they saw thee here.
All myself?
Why Romeo, art thou mad?
Speak.
Too old to be engaged to young.
Cassio!
Now is the day we long have lookèd for.
The limit of your lives is out.
Thou hast obtained thy suit.
He hath no friends but who are friends for fear.
Your heart’s desires be with you.
Thou shalt be whipped with wire and stewed in brine, Smarting in ling’ring pickle!
You know, he brought me out o' favor with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
Let grief Convert to anger.
Till noon?
Monster, lay to your fingers.
 unmowed, it grows to seed, so that nothing springs up but weeds, rough thistles, barren plants, and burs.
Neither good nor bad.
In which regard,
It must be shortly known to him from England What is the issue of the business there.
He’s fat, and scant of breath.— Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.
I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother, Who prays continually for Richmond’s good.
Grant their lawful suit.
If it were done when ’tis done, then ’twere well It were done quickly.
Edmund, seek him out, wind me into him, I pray you.
Say this becomes him— As his composure must be rare indeed Whom these things cannot blemish—yet must Antony No way excuse his foils when we do bear So great weight in his lightness.
I have a letter guessingly set down, Which came from one that’s of a neutral heart, And not from one opposed.
Speak, Count, ’tis your cue.
Besides, I like you not.
The devil himself could not pronounce a title More hateful to mine ear.
O infinite virtue, com’st thou smiling from The world’s great snare uncaught?
Or here, or at the Capitol.
A hit, a very palpable hit.
My old friend Grumio and my good friend Petruchio?
Or that I had any friend would be a man for my sake!
Bring thou the master to the citadel.
Tis a very excellent piece of work, madam lady.
Who, I?
Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish.
Alas, good gentleman!
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge, Myself condemnèd and myself excused.
But now I’ll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
But down.
Death is the fairest cover for her shame That may be wished for.
How dost thou and thy master agree?
I am sorry that your leisure serves you not.— Antonio, gratify this gentleman, For in my mind you are much bound to him.
And now you know my meaning.
Dined at home”?
Is Clarence dead?
If ever he go alone again, I’ll never wrestle for prize more.
For Oberon is passing fell and wrath Because that she, as her attendant hath A lovely boy stolen from an Indian king.
Prithee, my king, be quiet.
Now they are my men.
When think you that the sword goes up again?
And for I know she taketh most delight In music, instruments, and poetry, Schoolmasters will I keep within my house, Fit to instruct her youth.
Keep me in temper.
I and my sword will earn our chronicle.
Here on her breast There is a vent of blood, and something blown.
Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle lambs And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
I love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
Not proud you have, but thankful that you have.
Away, and mock the time with fairest show.
Let them play it.
Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
I will look him and privily relieve him.
I give him curses, yet he gives me love.
They are coming to the play.
Why, there was a crown offered him; and, being offered him, he put it by with the back of his hand, thus; and then the people fell a-shouting. 
Knock, sir?
Ay, but not frighted me.
I hope better.
That a maiden’s heart hath burned?
 I can shake off the tyranny that now oppresses me whenever I choose.
killed a cat?
I have used thee, Filth as thou art, with human care, and lodged thee In mine own cell till thou didst seek to violate The honor of my child.
What noise?
Can you do it?
Now, fair befall thee, good Petruchio!
Alas, poor Romeo!
Note if your lady strain his entertainment
Let our reciprocal vows be remembered.
All men’s faces are true, whatsome’er their hands are.
Take thee that too.
All which the Moor is defective in.
Leave holloaing, man.
A substitute shines brightly as a king Until a king be by, and then his state Empties itself, as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters.
You shall have anything.
Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
These are not natural events.
What unaccustomed cause procures her hither?
Arm, arm, my lord.
My liberty.
If I have killed the issue of your womb, To quicken your increase I will beget Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter.
Well, stand aside.—'Fore God, they are both in a ale.
What is a man If his chief good and market of his time Be but to sleep and feed?
To find out you.
It is not yet near day.
It shall not need.
Tis double wrong to truant with your bed And let her read it in thy looks at board.
It alone concerns your ear.
That most ingrateful boy there by your side From the rude sea’s enraged and foamy mouth Did I redeem.
Tell your piteous heart There’s no harm done.
I fear your disposition.
If your love do not persuade you to come, let not my letter.” O love, dispatch all business and be gone!
Front to front Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself.
What wouldst thou, fellow?
More will I do— Though all that I can do is nothing worth, Since that my penitence comes after all, Imploring pardon.
Indeed?
What, says the married woman you may go?
Therefore be o' good cheer, for truly I think you are damned.
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them, And if they fall, they dash themselves to pieces.
This only is the witchcraft I have used.
Is not this buckled well?
If sight and shape be true, Why then, my love adieu.
Moblèd queen” is good.
So is he now in execution Of any bold or noble enterprise, However he puts on this tardy form.
Most certain.
Now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some hope thou didst feign. 
Vile earth, to earth resign.
If you do love me you will find me out.— Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof.
She is a virtuous and a reverend lady.
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
You are now out of your text.
Peace, ho, for shame!
Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!
Wouldst thou withdraw it?
I pray you, let it stand.
To horse, you gallant princes, straight to horse.
Friends, part!” and, swifter than his tongue, His agile arm beats down their fatal points, And ’twixt them rushes—underneath whose arm An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled.
But ’tis strange.
Let her send it.
There is means, madam.
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
Commend me to your daughter.
Bear them from hence.
Thou art the thing itself.
Nay, stay.
Thou shalt Go back, I warrant thee!
I would I had your bond, for I perceive A weak bond holds you.
You can do better yet, but this is meetly.
Marry, that am I and my partner.
And the creature run from the cur?
Let me see.
Who’s there?
Then if he lose he makes a swanlike end, Fading in music.
Tomorrow dinner, then?
There’s fire ready.
By Cheshu, he will maintain his argument as well as any military man in the world in the disciplines of the pristine wars of the Romans.
That’s my sister.
I could marry this wench for this device.
We have lost best half of our affair.
Ay, and a kind one too.
He does make our fire, Fetch in our wood, and serves in offices That profit us.—What, ho!
My leg is cut in two.
Think’st thou, Hortensio, though her father be very rich, any man is so very a fool to be married to hell?
Good night, honest Iago.
I tell you, ’tis incredible to believe How much she loves me.
Good friends, go in and taste some wine with me.
I will tell you everything, right as it fell out.
Come with a thought.
Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.
At Crosby Place, there shall you find us both.
Let him send no more— Unless perchance you come to me again To tell me how he takes it.
Why let it strike?
Why, man, they did make love to this employment.
Think’st thou that duty shall have dread to speak When power to flattery bows?
Help, angels.
Ask me not what I know.
Well said.
Look where the youngest wren of nine comes.
Bear’st thou her face in mind?
Let him appear that’s come from Antony.
They were suborned.
Your Dane, your German, and your swag-bellied Hollander—Drink, ho!—are nothing to your English.
I am old and foolish.
But jealous souls will not be answered so.
What is here?
The rest are princes, barons, lords, knights, squires, And gentlemen of blood and quality.
Lie with her—that’s fulsome.
I will go call the watch.
He says so, Tranio?
With all my heart, and it doth much content me To hear him so inclined.
Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee.
Mere prattle without practice Is all his soldiership.
He started one poor heart of mine in thee.
Something have you heard Of Hamlet’s “transformation”—so call it Since nor th' exterior nor the inward man Resembles that it was.
Ay, do you fear it?
Unfold it.
What news?
Well, I am sorry for your niece.
Thou liest.
Who is ’t that calls?
I do not well know, my lord.
Adieu, good Monsieur Melancholy.
Since the youth of the count’s was today with thy lady, she is much out of quiet.
Am I like such a fellow?
They are winged.
I have a daughter, sir, called Katherina.
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak With most miraculous organ.
Come, go with me.
Signior, it is the Moor.
Oh, no.
If love be rough with you, be rough with love.
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
I will look further into ’t.
Adieu.
Whither, my lord?—Cesario, husband, stay.
I will walk up and down here and I will sing, that they shall hear I am not afraid.
Pray, do not mock me.
Call my sister so.
Dorset is fled to Richmond.
Why ask you?
Horrible steep.
I strike quickly, being moved.
Look up a-height.
All men call thee fickle.
Speak softly.
Right well, dear madam.
Soldiers, have careful watch.
Where is your husband?
Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
Here’s neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all.
The capon burns; the pig falls from the spit; The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell; My mistress made it one upon my cheek.
O mischief, thou art swift To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
What beard were I best to play it in?
Is ’t far you ride?
To be your fellow You may deny me, but I’ll be your servant Whether you will or no.
Let us go, For it is after midnight, and ere day We will awake him and be sure of him.
Tell me, thou villain-slave, where are my children?
You will be schoolmaster And undertake the teaching of the maid
Were I a common laugher, or did use To stale with ordinary oaths my love To every new protester, if you know That I do fawn on men and hug them hard And, after, scandal them, or if you know That I profess myself in banqueting To all the rout, then hold me dangerous.
Thou dost snore distinctly.
Say I will love her everlastingly.
I pray you, then, in love and dear alliance, Let that one article rank with the rest, And thereupon give me your daughter.
I will employ thee back again; I find thee Most fit for business.
Why, sir, what’s your conceit in that?
Why, all our ranks are broke.
Be clamorous, and leap all civil bounds, Rather than make unprofited return.
Look, here comes Helena.
Your names?
Sweet bodements!
Who hath measured the ground?
Give him a present.
Here, mighty Theseus.
And so farewell.—Katherina, you may stay, For I have more to commune with Bianca.
But how is it That this lives in thy mind?
The general speaks to you.
How if he will not stand?
Yet I persuade myself to speak the truth Shall nothing wrong him.
Eros, Wouldst thou be windowed in great Rome and see Thy master thus with pleached arms, bending down His corrigible neck, his face subdued To penetrative shame, whilst the wheeled seat Of fortunate Caesar, drawn before him, branded His baseness that ensued?
Eros, thou yet behold’st me?
Hark.
Cleopatra— Why should I think you can be mine, and true— Though you in swearing shake the thronèd gods— Who have been false to Fulvia?
Gone, sir.
I am not of many words, but I thank you.
To her, my lord, Was I betrothed ere I saw Hermia.
A sleeve?
Your virtue is my privilege.
Good or bad news, that thou com’st in so bluntly?
Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse Into the marketplace.
Fie, fie!
Most heavy day!
What, is this so?
Who comes here?
Early tomorrow will we rise and hence.
For his bounty, There was no winter in ’t, an autumn ’twas That grew the more by reaping.
Nay, that you shall not.
Remember thee!
I was not born to die on Brutus' sword.
No such jade as you, if me you mean.
If you grow foul with me, Pistol, I will scour you with my rapier, as I may, in fair terms.
I see you do not mean to part with her, Or else you like not of my company.
I’ll make one too.
No, by no means.
I will have it all mine.
Your Grace, we think, should soonest know his mind.
I knew what you would prove.
Hence, saucy eunuch!
Let me be clear of thee.
Let th’ Egyptians And the Phoenicians go a-ducking.
Shall we give o'er and drown?
Help me, my women!
What is ’t o'clock?
Men, wives, and children stare, cry out, and run As it were doomsday.
He that knows better how to tame a shrew, Now let him speak; ’tis charity to show.
Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock.
Master, mean you so?
I’ll not be strucken, my lord.
The captain— Give it the captain.
Fly hence and leave me.
Ha!
 either be out of here before the night watchmen take their positions, or leave in disguise after daybreak.
Faith, once or twice she heaved the name of “father” Pantingly forth as if it pressed her heart, Cried, “Sisters, sisters!
You are both sure, and will assist me?
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the city?
No, no, forsooth, I dare not for my life.
There is tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for his valor, and death for his ambition.
I pray you do.
It must needs be of subtle, tender, and delicate temperance.
I would your duty were as foolish too.
And yonder, Caesar.
An apple, cleft in two, is not more twin Than these two creatures.
Did he live now,
He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt.
Vouchsafe to those that have not read the story That I may prompt them; and of such as have, I humbly pray them to admit th' excuse Of time, of numbers, and due course of things, Which cannot in their huge and proper life Be here presented.
I will be free from thee.
Oh, speak of that.
I take this offer then
White-livered runagate, what doth he there?
This pernicious slave, Forsooth, took on him as a conjurer, And, gazing in mine eyes, feeling my pulse,
Down with the Montagues!
Be merciful, great duke, to men of mold.
Or shall we on without apology?
And so, God be with him!
Have all his ventures failed?
Hand in hand with fairy grace Will we sing and bless this place.
Why, go to bed, and sleep.
My lord, my lord!
Ill rest betide the chamber where thou liest!
Think upon these gone.
Richard!
Edmund, farewell.
Have you that I sent you for?
He brings great news.
That you should here repent you, The actors are at hand, and by their show You shall know all that you are like to know.
The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus.
There stays a husband to make you a wife.
How cheerest thou, Jessica?
And we, like friends, will straightway go together.
Thank you.
County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
Knock, knock!
Sound them, it doth become the mouth as well.
A most miraculous work in this good king, Which often since my here-remain in England I have seen him do.
I have broke with her father and his goodwill obtained.
And I for Rosalind.
She had a prophesying fear Of what hath come to pass.
I do beseech your Grace, Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me.
Dead, dead?
I do now let loose my opinion, hold it no longer
You will take little delight in it, I can tell you, there is such odds in the man.
I have Immortal longings in me.
And O you mortal engines, whose rude throats The immortal Jove’s dead clamors counterfeit, Farewell!
Look, look.
Due for a chain your husband had of him.
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse.
Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy Be heaped like mine, and that thy skill be more To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath This neighbor air, and let rich music’s tongue Unfold the imagined happiness that both Receive in either by this dear encounter.
I did send To you for gold to pay my legions, Which you denied me.
Thou shalt not lose by it.
What may I call your name?
O good Sir Toby, hold!
Ay, let her rot and perish and be damned tonight, for she shall not live.
My sweet mistress Weeps when she sees me work, and says such baseness Had never like executor.
Away, I do beseech you, both away.
Never did faithful subject more rejoice At the discovery of most dangerous treason Than I do at this hour joy o'er myself, Prevented from a damnèd enterprise.
A foe to tyrants, and my country’s friend.
No, it is struck.
Keep thou the left.
Alone, it was the subject of my theme; In company I often glancèd it.
Come, go we to the king.
Ah, my back, my back!
This Caesar was a tyrant.
It is a man’s office, but not yours.
Wrinkles forbid!
O hated potion, hence!
Tweaks me by the nose?
Gallus, go you along.
When thou once Wast beaten from Modena, where thou slew’st Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel Did famine follow, whom thou fought’st against, Though daintily brought up, with patience more Than savages could suffer.
Self-harming jealousy, fie, beat it hence.
It is, my lord.
Therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh.
Is ’t not denounced against us?
I protest unto thee— Good heart, and i' faith, I will tell her as much.
Meantime, have patience.
Oh, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
Madam, good night.
Do you not hear, fellows?
Then the whining schoolboy with his satchel And shining morning face, creeping like snail Unwillingly to school.
What, are you mad?
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
I, as I may—that which I would I cannot,— With best advantage will deceive the time, And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms.
Speak, speak.
Call him hither to me, soldier.
Ay, Casca.
Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.
Where goes Cesario?
And I.
My brother hath a daughter, Almost the copy of my child that’s dead, And she alone is heir to both of us.
Since that my beauty cannot please his eye, I’ll weep what’s left away, and weeping die.
If she will return me my jewels I will give over my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation.
Descend.
I must have liberty Withal, as large a charter as the wind, To blow on whom I please, for so fools have.
Ay, madam.
Oh, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way Of starvèd people.
Your eldest daughters have fordone themselves, And desperately are dead.
And what said Surrey then?
 are you the man who once had a wife named Emilia, who gave birth to two fair sons?
And may you prove, sir, master of your art.
Use me but as your spaniel—spurn me, strike me, Neglect me, lose me.
Came they not by you?
When were you wont to use my sister thus?
I’ll come to him.
We wish your peace.
I’ll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders Before I’ll see the crown so foul misplaced.
O Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married, they would talk themselves mad.
Content.
Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend.
You mar our labor.
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing, To tell him his commandment is fulfilled, That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
Our dinner done and he not coming thither, I went to seek him.
It is very sultry—as ’twere—I cannot tell how.
Go therefore, tell thy master
When spake I such a word?
Oh, that woman that cannot make her fault her husband’s occasion, let her never nurse her child herself, for she will breed it like a fool.
Mars’s hot minion is returned again.
Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants, Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home Of bell and burial.
Let’s mock the midnight bell.
Sweet, say on.
I do so, I confess it.
By Janus, I think no.
Yet I love thee too.
How is ’t with me when every noise appals me?
I’ll not endure it.
By my faith, you have great reason to be sad.
I see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me.
I tell him we shall stay here at the least a month, and he heartily prays some occasion may detain us longer.
And look to have it yielded with all kindness.
Look in upon me then and speak with me, Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee.
Therefore, as I am bound, Receive it from me.
For naught so vile that on the earth doth live But to the earth some special good doth give.
Lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed.
The general and his wife are talking of it, And she speaks for you stoutly.
He has been yonder i' the sun practising behavior to his own shadow this half hour.
But not with such familiar instances Nor with such free and friendly conference As he hath used of old.
Hast thou slain him then?
Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon, Be it lawful I take up what’s cast away.
Tell me for more certainty, Albeit I’ll swear that I do know your tongue.
Write to me very shortly, And you shall understand from me her mind.
Oh, make an end Of what I have begun!
What trumpet is that same?
Mark Antony shall say I am not well, And for thy humor I will stay at home.
Therefore, great King, We yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy.
Best of comfort, And ever welcome to us.
I know not why he comes.
Being entertained for a perfumer, as I was smoking a musty room, comes me the Prince and Claudio, hand in hand, in sad conference.
First let us go to dinner.
Where is my father and my mother, Nurse?
Honest Iago Hath ta'en order for ’t.
I’ll have no worse a name than Jove’s own page, And therefore look you call me Ganymede.
Nothing, good monsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb to scratch.
Therefore prepare thyself.
Thou chid’st me oft for loving Rosaline.
Lead me from hence.
What’s else to say?—                                                          These quicksands, Lepidus, Keep off them, for you sink.
Virtue is beauty, but the beauteous evil Are empty trunks o'erflourished by the devil.
Where left we last?
Plague on ’t, an I thought he had been valiant and so cunning in fence, I’d have seen him damned ere I’d have challenged him.
Alack, ’tis he.
Our foster nurse of nature is repose, The which he lacks—that to provoke in him Are many simples operative, whose power Will close the eye of anguish.
I humbly beseech you, proceed to th' affairs of state.
Good.
Excellent.
My lord.
Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service Did worthily perform, and I must use you In such another trick.
Will ’t please your Mightiness to wash your hands?
What, to perverseness?
 farewell.
That same cowardly, giantlike ox-beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house.
Madam, I trust, not so.
What hour now?
He’s worth more sorrow, And that I’ll spend for him.
Sextus Pompeius Makes his approaches to the port of Rome.
How canst thou try them so?
First, forward to the temple.
I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
But with a rearward following Tybalt’s death, “Romeo is banishèd.” To speak that word, Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet, All slain, all dead.
The world esteemed thy father honorable, But I did find him still mine enemy.
Seigneur Valentio and his cousin Tybalt; Lucio and the lively Helena.” A fair assembly.
Even then this forkèd plague is fated to us When we do quicken.
Not one to throw at a dog.
Will you pleasure me?
Some food we had and some fresh water that A noble Neapolitan, Gonzalo, Out of his charity, who being then appointed Master of this design, did give us, with Rich garments, linens, stuffs, and necessaries, Which since have steaded much.
Pray heaven I be deceived in you.
No, my lord.
It would make a man mad as a buck to be so bought and sold.
It is well.
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
The best and soundest of his time hath been but rash.
Fare ye well.
The man grows mad.
And thus she means, videlicet— Asleep, my love?
O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil!
This was his basket.
Cambio.
I loved you ever.
I do but keep the peace.
Be not so.
Read it.
I was contracted to them both.
I did enact Julius Caesar.
The world’s a huge thing.
You take my house when you do take the prop That doth sustain my house.
March gently on to meet him.
Three months from twelve, then.
What a plague means my niece, to take the death of her brother thus?
My noble girls!
My salad days, When I was green in judgment, cold in blood, To say as I said then.
I look down towards his feet, but that’s a fable.
Shall we go see the relics of this town?
Thou shalt not have him.
Hear it apart.
Therefore, dear Isis, keep decorum, and fortune him accordingly. 
Or does he walk?
Captain, I thee beseech to do me favors.
Much castigation, exercise devout, For here’s a young and sweating devil here, That commonly rebels.
If one should be a prey, how much the better To fall before the lion than the wolf!
Until I know this sure uncertainty I’ll entertain the offered fallacy.
As wicked dew as e'er my mother brushed With raven’s feather from unwholesome fen Drop on you both!
Welcome.
But, as I said, On Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Oh, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Here is better than the open air.
Nay, very pale.
He’ll make a proper man.
Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother, Of the young prince your son.
Sweet Portia, If you did know to whom I gave the ring, If you did know for whom I gave the ring, And would conceive for what I gave the ring, And how unwillingly I left the ring When naught would be accepted but the ring, You would abate the strength of your displeasure.
A greater power than we can contradict Hath thwarted our intents.
That our garments, being, as they were, drenched in the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses, being rather new-dyed than stained with salt water.
But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
And take good note What Caesar doth, what suitors press to him.
Go to, go to.
Marry, that can Hero!
I understand thee not.
The wife of Antony Should have an army for an usher and The neighs of horse to tell of her approach Long ere she did appear.
I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to protest.
But if you have a stomach, to ’t, i' God’s name
In him there is a hope of government, Which, in his nonage, council under him, And, in his full and ripened years, himself, No doubt shall then, and till then, govern well.
Rosalind of a better leer than you.
Do all men kill the things they do not love?
Friar, it cannot be.
Thus I let you go And give you to the gods.
Iago beckons me.
E'en so.
I pray thee, if it stand with honesty, Buy thou the cottage, pasture, and the flock, And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.
I will physic your rankness and yet give no thousand crowns neither.—Holla, Dennis!
Go to, well said, well said.
Follow not.
For indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish a bird?
Indeed, they are disproportioned.
My daughter’s mother thinks it with her soul.
And mine, but it grows something stale with me.
Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall To cureless ruin.
Prithee, go in thyself.
And from her womb children of divers kind We sucking on her natural bosom find, Many for many virtues excellent, None but for some and yet all different.
Had you not come upon your cue, my lord, William Lord Hastings had pronounced your part— I mean your voice for crowning of the king.
Here, my good lord.
I know not, lady.
I thank it.
Why, she defies me Like Turk to Christian.
Carried to Colmekill, The sacred storehouse of his predecessors, And guardian of their bones.
Hid’st thou that forehead with a golden crown Where should be branded, if that right were right, The slaughter of the prince that owed that crown And the dire death of my poor sons and brothers?
No more, I pray you.
What, has this thing appeared again tonight?
Come on, then.
Now, as I am a Christian, answer me In what safe place you have bestowed my money, Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours That stands on tricks when I am undisposed.
No, dear Queen, For we intend so to dispose you as Yourself shall give us counsel.
A lover is more condoling.
Or I will live Or bathe my dying honor in the blood Shall make it live again.
What misadventure is so early up That calls our person from our morning rest?
Go.
Tis said, man, and farewell.
Show.
Oh, when she had writ it and was reading it over, she found “Benedick” and “Beatrice” between the sheet?
As hell, Sir Topas.
Bear free and patient thoughts.
If it might please you to enforce no further The griefs between ye, to forget them quite Were to remember that the present need Speaks to atone you.
I know no ways to mince it in love, but directly to say, “I love you.” Then if you urge me farther than to say, “Do you, in faith?” I wear out my suit.
So am I purposed.
Come.
O knight, thou lackest a cup of canary.
Now, my lord.
Apothecary!
Alack, for pity!
Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
He is as horribly conceited of him, and pants and looks pale, as if a bear were at his heels.
With Demetrius.
The moon?
There’s another.
He has a little galled me, I confess.
Take a trumpet, herald.
No, sir.
Warrant thee, my man’s as true as steel.
Look who comes here.
Right, as snow in harvest.
Harpier cries, “'Tis time, ’tis time.” Round about the cauldron go, In the poisoned entrails throw.
Why dost thou call him “knave”?
In your bad strokes, Brutus, you give good words.
Are you a man?
Brutus is wise, and were he not in health, He would embrace the means to come by it.
You may as well go about to turn the sun to ice with fanning in his face with a peacock’s feather.
It is my promise, And they expect it from me.
I fear my Thisbe’s promise is forgot!— And thou, O Wall, O sweet, O lovely Wall, That stand’st between her father’s ground and mine.
The sweeter rest was mine.
Alack, what noise is this?
Here, sir!
He shall not live.
If the English had any apprehension, they would run away.
If you did wed my sister for her wealth, Then for her wealth’s sake use her with more kindness.
I will so.
See where his Grace stands, ’tween two clergymen.
Say, have I thy consent that they shall die?
Ay, widow Dido.
Unless he have a fancy to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you would have it appear he is.
A velvet dish!
Hold, ho!
O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do.
Here is his Majesty.
If there be more, more woeful, hold it in.
Will ’t please your highness walk?
Whither wander you?
I may not leave it so.
One, gentlewoman, that God hath made, himself to mar.
O Pomfret, Pomfret!
Never talk to me.
Keep peace, upon your lives.
Banquo and Donalbain!
How does my bounteous sister?
Fly not.
Let us score their backs And snatch ’em up, as we take hares, behind!
Let me go.
So, again, good night.
I am not mad, Sir Topas.
How canst thou cross this marriage?
Villains, you did not so when your vile daggers Hacked one another in the sides of Caesar.
I cry you mercy, then, I took you for that cunning whore of Venice That married with Othello.—You, mistress, That have the office opposite to Saint Peter And keep the gate of hell!
Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father’s he!
Soldier, why wear’st thou that glove in thy cap?
Now, by Saint Peter’s Church and Peter too, He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
Peace.
Away!
These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend no good to us.
Lead him to my bower.
All dead.
Well, old man, I will tell you news of your son.
Why so, being gone,      Why so, being gone, I am a man again.
Set your countenance, sir.
I’ll be at thy elbow.
By heaven, I charge thee, speak.
Give her the right you should have given her cousin, And so dies my revenge.
I’ll not expostulate with her, lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again—This night, Iago!
If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof Were well deserved of rashness.
Be lion-mettled, proud, and take no care Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are.
Lo, she is one of this confederacy!
There he is.
Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
He thinks he still is at his instrument.
You may tell every finger I have with my ribs.
Nay, pursue him now, lest the device take air and taint.
Peradventure, to make it the more gracious, I shall sing it at her death. 
I mean not cuckold mad, But sure he is stark mad.
Farewell.
Who shall begin?
By and by.
Something from Cyprus as I may divine.
His word might bear my wealth at any time.
And, Demetrius, The more you beat me, I will fawn on you.
O, unpleasing news!
I met the duke yesterday and had much question with him.
Good repose the while!
Send thy man away.
Come.
Dead, then?
Myself have to mine own turned enemy.
Master, go on, and I will follow thee To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.
Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?
For then I’ll marry Warwick’s youngest daughter.
O’er my spirit Thy full supremacy thou knew’st, and that Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods Command me.
Not he that himself is not so, which is Mark Antony.
Not so, my lord.
What’s his offense?
They clepe us drunkards and with swinish phrase Soil our addition.
Half-blooded fellow, yes.
You shall read us the will, Caesar’s will.
Yea, that she did.
Our whole city is much bound to him.
Give ’s your hand.
Some there be that shadows kiss.
Come, let us go.
Madam, I am not well.
For it is a figure in rhetoric that drink, being poured out of a cup into a glass, by filling the one doth empty the other.
I say gudday, Captain Fluellen.
But, sir, forgive me, Since my becomings kill me when they do not Eye well to you.
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee And his commission to employ those soldiers, So levied as before, against the Polack, With an entreaty, herein further shown, That it might please you to give quiet pass Through your dominions for this enterprise, On such regards of safety and allowance As therein are set down.
Pray you, away.
Well, well, We shall thrive now.—Seest thou, my good fellow?
Mad for thy love?
Words, words, words.
Oh, defend me!
Your servants tend.
Read the will.
I cannot speak Any beginning to this peevish odds, And would in action glorious I had lost Those legs that brought me to a part of it.
Faith, I saw it not, but I felt it hot in her breath.
Ay, sooth, so humbled That he hath left part of his grief with me To suffer with him.
Get thee gone, And hire those horses.
For the table, sir, it shall be served in.
A friendly eye could never see such faults.
Do you know me, my lord?
What men daily do, not knowing what they do!
I do beseech your Grace pardon me, Who, earnest in the service of my God, Deferred the visitation of my friends.
I will not trouble you As yet to question you about your fortunes.— Give us some music, and, good cousin, sing.
I pray you call them in.
If we grow all to be pork-eaters, we shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money. 
Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me?
Soldiers, sir.
This tune goes manly.
What, in our house?
But how long shall that title “ever” last?
Farewell, and if my fortune be not crost, I have a father, you a daughter, lost.
Now sir, this granted—as it is a most pregnant and unforced position—who stands so eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio does?
Very well, madam.
She is spherical, like a globe.
Farewell.
A howling monster, a drunken monster.
First, if all obstacles were cut away And that my path were even to the crown As the ripe revenue and due of birth, Yet so much is my poverty of spirit, So mighty and so many my defects, That I would rather hide me from my greatness, Being a bark to brook no mighty sea, Than in my greatness covet to be hid And in the vapor of my glory smothered.
If all else fail, myself have power to die.
Your Majesty came not like yourself.
Is ’t so saucy?
There’s none but witches do inhabit here, And therefore ’tis high time that I were hence.
Come you, sir.
I had forgot the reward.
He says he’ll come.
I.
Excellent, i' faith, of the chameleon’s dish.
I fear you have sold your own lands to see other men’s.
Death of thy soul!
Though I die for it—as no less is threatened me—the king my old master must be relieved.
Thy dæmon—that thy spirit which keeps thee—is Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable Where Caesar’s is not.
His reared arm Crested the world.
I would be loath to cast away my speech, for besides that it is excellently well penned, I have taken great pains to con it.
A pair of stocks, you rogue!
Thou hotly lust’st to use her in that kind  For which thou whipp’st her.
Strumpet, I come.
What, art thou afraid?
Since he hath got the jewel that I loved, And that which you did swear to keep for me, I will become as liberal as you.
First resolve me that.
What error drives our eyes and ears amiss?
Scratching could not make it worse an ’twere such a face as yours were.
By the hour of nine.
By this hand, I love thee.
My talk to thee must be how Benedick Is sick in love with Beatrice.
Though Cassio did some little wrong to him, As men in rage strike those that wish them best, Yet surely Cassio, I believe, received From him that fled some strange indignity Which patience could not pass.
She speaks, yet she says nothing.
Now take them up,” quoth he, “if any list.”   Trembled and shook, for why he stamped and swore As if the vicar meant to cozen him.
Do, good friend.
The man should be put into the lanthorn.
Canst thou blame him?
Oh, ominous!
Then follow me and give me audience, friends.
It were pity to cast them away for nothing, though between them and a great cause they should be esteemed nothing.
He will not fight with me, Domitius?
Wherefore did they not That hour destroy us?
In practice let us put it presently.
Great Mark Antony Is now a widower.
Tis they have put him on the old man’s death, To have th' expense and spoil of his revenues.
O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice To slander music anymore than once.
Hold off the earth awhile Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
Or would you have me speak after my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex?
But yet It is our trick.
Though to have her and death were both one thing.
Why, may one ask?
Oh, come apace, dispatch!
Sir, I do know you, And dare upon the warrant of my note Commend a dear thing to you.
Why art thou angry?
But soft!
But I have none.
A beast, no more.
Welcome, good Robin.
Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you To pardon me yet for a night or two, Or if not so, until the sun be set.
Alas, what does this gentleman conceive?
I, madam?
Yet touch this sparingly, as ’twere far off, Because, my lord, you know my mother lives.
I like it not.
Go and tell them so.
O dainty duck!
Marry, do I, sir, and I came to acquaint you with a matter.
But fathers that bear bags  Shall see their children kind.
This is the brief of money, plate, and jewels I am possessed of.
What is thy name?
Ay, if I be alive and your mind hold and your dinner worth the eating.
Now, by my hood, a gentle and no Jew.
I wonder at this haste, that I must wed Ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
I bear no hatred, blessèd man, for, lo, My intercession likewise steads my foe.
It is the blessèd sun.
Are you so gospeled To pray for this good man and for his issue, Whose heavy hand hath bowed you to the grave And beggared yours forever?
These deeds must not be thought After these ways.
Good madam, let me see your face.
O woeful day, O woeful day!
Oh, thou art wise!
This is a practise As full of labor as a wise man’s art, For folly that he wisely shows is fit.
Fear not, Cesario.
Welcome, lady.
I do remember me, Henry the Sixth Did prophesy that Richmond should be king, When Richmond was a little peevish boy.
And so it is.
Will you not tell me who told you so?
Merciful heaven!
I take my leave at once.
They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
But ’tis gone.
Why do you speak, too, “Why blame you me to love you?”?
I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man swear he loves me.
Our arms in strength of malice and our hearts Of brothers' temper do receive you in With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
And you shall speak In the same pulpit whereto I am going, After my speech is ended.
Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day I wore it?
Stay with us.
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal, Nearer in bloody thoughts, and not in blood, Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did, And yet go current from suspicion.
Who does beguile you?
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate, or else shall I?— What’s this?
Here were the servants of your adversary, And yours, close fighting ere I did approach.
Therefore no more but to the matter.
I have a suit to you.
Now, unto thy bones good night!
I know my remedy.
Take heed you fall not.
Will you have some more sauce to your leek?
Fore heaven, they have given me a rouse already.
The king mine uncle is to blame for it.
Who is ’t that can inform me?
Every one.
And for his cowardship, ask Fabian.
Go comfort your cousin.
I will not fail.
Why, see you not?
She were an excellent wife for Benedict.
My love doth so approve him That even his stubbornness, his checks, his frowns— Prithee, unpin me—have grace and favor.
Hero thinks surely she will die, for she says she will die if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her love known, and she will die if he woo her rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness.
And for the more better assurance, tell them that I, Pyramus, am not Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver.
Who hath sent thee now?
Death and damnation!
I need not to be ashamed of your Majesty, praised be God, so long as your Majesty is an honest man.
Alas, too soon We came aboard.
I gave him no order.
What, I, my lord?
But shall ’t be shortly?
What, man, there are ways to recover the general again.
Foolish wench, To th' most of men this is a Caliban And they to him are angels.
By a name I know not how to tell thee who I am.
Here, kiss the book.
As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites, To countenance this horror!
Alack, for mercy!
Why then, your other senses grow imperfect By your eyes' anguish.
Tell me, thou unknown power—      He knows thy thought.
What is it else?
Come, bid me do anything for thee.
A false conclusion.
Content with Hermia?
Hail, brave friend!
A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats, And for the same he promised me a chain.
Crowner’s quest law.
Never anger Made good guard for itself.
I have a good eye, uncle.
Give me a living reason she’s disloyal.
 she says she’ll see you hanged first.
Here’s another More potent than the first.
And my trust, Like a good parent, did beget of him A falsehood in its contrary as great As my trust was, which had indeed no limit, A confidence sans bound.
Good morrow, good Lieutenant.
Yet Count Claudio may hear, for what I would speak of concerns him.
They that add, moreover, he’s drunk nightly in your company.
Where is the king?
Othello’s occupation’s gone.
Did heaven look on, And would not take their part?
I’ll venture so much of my hawk or hound, But twenty times so much upon my wife.
Is ’t possible?
Why, madam, have I offered love for this, To be so flouted in this royal presence?
Why, to put ’s head in—not to give it away to his daughters and leave his horns without a case.
And when the mind is quickened, out of doubt, The organs, though defunct and dead before, Break up their drowsy grave and newly move, With casted slough and fresh legerity.
Nothing, my lord.
A deed without a name.
But fare you well.
Tell him I would speak with him.
You must not think I am so simple but I know the devil himself will not eat a woman.
Upon your sword Sit laurel victory, and smooth success Be strewed before your feet.
Mine’s not an idle cause.
Good fortune, worthy soldier, and farewell.
Come, death, and welcome!
Oh, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste with a distempered appetite.
Confess!—Handkerchief!—Oh, devil!— Work on, My medicine, work!
Tis no matter.
Come, go.
Were not my doors locked up and I shut out?
I did not kill your husband.
The earth, that’s nature’s mother, is her tomb.
You told a lie, an odious, damnèd lie.
Why, sir, I gave the money for the rope.
Pray, write down, “Borachio.”—Yours, sirrah?
Alack, sir, I am sand-blind.
Yes, being kept together and put to use.
For three months, well.
Thou dost infect mine eyes.
Give me thy hand.
What is your parentage?” “Above my fortunes, yet my state is well.
In my mind’s eye, Horatio.
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Yea, from the table of my memory I’ll wipe away all trivial fond records, All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past That youth and observation copied there, And thy commandment all alone shall live Within the book and volume of my brain, Unmixed with baser matter.
You shall not go, my lord.
I shall miss thee, But yet thou shalt have freedom.—So, so, so.— To the king’s ship, invisible as thou art.
Methinks he looks as though he were in love.
Indeed!
It is a common thing— Ha?
His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.
Care keeps his watch in every old man’s eye, And where care lodges, sleep will never lie.
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows, Being black, puts us in mind they hide the fair.
Madam, yond young fellow swears he will speak with you.
That lord that counseled thee To give away thy land, Come place him here by me.
Bring me to Octavius.
Why, tell me, is not this my Cambio?
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer.
You’ll pay me the eight shillings I won of you at betting?
Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I may find the young Romeo?
If you meet the Prince in the night, you may stay him.
Ha!
I’ll tarry no longer with you.
Now might I do it pat.
Whip me such honest knaves.
What are they, beseech your ladyship?
Dry up in her the organs of increase, And from her derogate body never spring A babe to honor her.
But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
But soft you, let me be.
If you love her then, tomorrow wed her.
What, thou?
Herein I see thou lov’st me not with the full weight that I love thee.
No matter.
I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
Away, Tybalt.
His name’s Cinna.
Sit down and rest.
Welcome, destruction, blood, and massacre.
I know not, gentlemen, what you intend, Who else must be let blood, who else is rank.
No king of England if not king of France.
Returned so soon?
Come, begin.
What countryman?
Motley’s the only wear.
What, not a word?
What sayest thou?
No, indeed, my lord.
When he stands where I am and sees you there.  
So, slave, hence!
My husband, then?
I saw the Duchess of Milan’s gown that they praise so.
What is between you?
Why, thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit. 
Shall I descend?
Unfought withal, but I will sell my dukedom To buy a slobb'ry and a dirty farm In that nook-shotten isle of Albion.
If thou beest Stephano, touch me and speak to me.
Yet hear me speak.
Tis she must do ’t, And, lo, the happiness!
I pity thy complaining.
Upon my life, my lord, I’ll undertake it.
She hath good leave.
Go, sirrah, seek him.
My liege and madam, to expostulate What majesty should be, what duty is, Why day is day, night night, and time is time, Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
So do I ever  For had I cursed now, I had cursed myself.
Hence, away!
Sirs, I will practice on this drunken man.
Didst thou hear these verses?
He swore he would never marry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats his meat without grudging.
Are you not well?
I think our father will hence tonight.
Good fool, help me to some light and some paper.
The ladies, her attendants of her chamber Saw her abed, and in the morning early They found the bed untreasured of their mistress.
Oh my fair warrior!
Firm and irrevocable is my doom Which I have passed upon her.
Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.
For I tell you, father, I am as peremptory as she proud-minded; And where two raging fires meet together, They do consume the thing that feeds their fury.
About it!
He is a craven and a villain else, an ’t please your Majesty, in my conscience.
I thank you most for him.
Good my complexion, dost thou think though I am caparisoned like a man, I have a doublet and hose in my disposition?
Tis certain so, the Prince woos for himself.
Never, till Caesar’s three and thirty wounds Be well avenged, or till another Caesar Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
The skies, the fountains, every region near Seemed all one mutual cry.
Where did I leave?
Though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane, And thou opposed, being of no woman born, Yet I will try the last.
When?
You should for that have reprehended him.
Woo’t thou fight well?
The flat transgression of a schoolboy who, being overjoyed with finding a birds' nest, shows it his companion, and he steals it.
Sweetest nut hath sourest rind; Such a nut is Rosalind.
Why, how now, cousin!
Is ’t long or round?
God defend me from these two!
Sir, March is wasted fifteen days.
There may as well be amity and life 'Tween snow and fire, as treason and my love.
Young fry of treachery!
My Lord of Norfolk— Here, most gracious liege.
Work, work your thoughts, and therein see a siege.
That.
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at my beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give them shape, or time to act them in.
Now all the plagues that in the pendulous air Hang fated o'er men’s faults light on thy daughters!
What’s the matter That you unlace your reputation thus And spend your rich opinion for the name Of a night-brawler?
All things are ready if our minds be so.
Signior?
Believe none of us.
Some villain hath done me wrong.
How?
The moon is down.
I think I hear them.—Stand, ho!
Yet again?
My breath and blood!
Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone.
Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode.
Why, so didst thou.
Is she not proud?
Why do you infect yourself with them?
Urge the necessity and state of times, And be not peevish found in great designs.
Reproach and everlasting shame Sits mocking in our plumes.
Look, he stirs.
I heard myself proclaimed, And by the happy hollow of a tree Escaped the hunt.
Be better suited.
Well, what is it?
And come yourselves, and bring Messala with you, Immediately to us.
But in my conscience, sir, I do not care for you.
The Jew shall have all justice.
Is he alone?
By Hercules, I think I am i’ th’ right.
Thou thinkest I am in sport.
Till he come home again, I would forbear.
Ay me!
It is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing.
But we are prevented.
 if you can’t change something, don’t cry about it.
Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band; he that brings any man to answer it that breaks his band; one that thinks a man always going to bed and says “God give you good rest.”  Well, sir, there rest in your foolery.
For charitable prayers Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her.
First, as you know, my house within the city Is richly furnishèd with plate and gold, Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands; My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry, In ivory coffers I have stuffed my crowns, In cypress chests my arras counterpoints, Costly apparel, tents, and canopies, Fine linen, Turkey cushions bossed with pearl, Valance of Venice gold in needlework, Pewter and brass, and all things that belong To house or housekeeping.
Ay, my good lord.
I cannot speak enough of this content.
Come, Romeo.
There is no obstruction in this.
Your betters have endured me say my mind, And if you cannot, best you stop your ears.
I was a gentleman, And then I told you true.
But I had rather fast from all four days Than drink so much in one.
Shall I have some water?— Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.— You whoreson villain!
Sure, it was the roar Of a whole herd of lions.
Yea, marry, let them come before me.
Do you confess so much?
Yield, cur.
They thus directed, we will follow In the main battle, whose puissance on either side Shall be well wingèd with our chiefest horse.
Who wrongs him?
My wits begin to turn.—   Come on, my boy.
But old folks, many feign as they were dead, Unwieldy, slow, heavy, and pale as lead.
Madam!
To answer that, I should confess to you.
Or I, I promise thee.
Do as I bid you.
Armed, brother?
When shall we come to th' top of that same hill?
As I intend to prosper and repent, So thrive I in my dangerous affairs Of hostile arms!
Awake!
No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
How many things by season seasoned are To their right praise and true perfection!
And here’s another, whose warped looks proclaim What store her heart is made on.
I’ll know his humor when he knows his time.
What is his name?
Hold you content.
Therefore be patient.
Stay, fellow.
For what reason?
What is ’t, my lord?
Most certain.
By'r Lady, thirty years.
I cannot say “whore,” It does abhor me now I speak the word.
Tyranny is dead!
Good sister, let us dine and never fret.
The old man’s daughter told us all.
Come.
And the rarest that e'er came there.
I hold you but a subject of this war, Not as a brother.
But if we fail, We then can do ’t at land.
The barbarous Scythian, Or he that makes his generation messes To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom Be as well neighbored, pitied, and relieved As thou my sometime daughter.
Now by my George, my Garter, and my crown— Profaned, dishonored, and the third usurped.
It is the best horse of Europe.
Why, my boy?
I will not think it.
Old Cassius still.
Give the word through.
She did show favor to the youth in your sight only to exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valor, to put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver.
Tis since the earthquake now eleven years, And she was weaned—I never shall forget it— Of all the days of the year, upon that day.
Not a jot more, my lord.
Invoke his warlike spirit And your great-uncle’s, Edward the Black Prince, Who on the French ground played a tragedy, Making defeat on the full power of France Whiles his most mighty father on a hill Stood smiling to behold his lion’s whelp Forage in blood of French nobility.
You may gather more.
If I let him go, The debt he owes will be required of me.
And an ill singer, my lord.
Go to, you’re a dry fool.
So much was his pleasure should be proclaimed.
Let me speak a little.
Take thou that.
Look thou but sweet, And I am proof against their enmity.
My brother killed no man; his fault was thought, And yet his punishment was bitter death.
Therefore speak softly.
I do bite my thumb, sir.
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
Fie on thee!
I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.
Go you and tell her of it.
By my troth, he’ll yield the crow a pudding one of these days.
These fifteen years!
Who brought it?
I am not Cinna the conspirator.
I hope you do not mean to cheat me so.
Each new morn New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds As if it felt with Scotland and yelled out Like syllable of dolor.
I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her, And therefore let me be thus bold with you To give you over at this first encounter, Unless you will accompany me thither.
Nay, I have offered all, I have no more, And she can have no more than all I have.
strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out of men’s bodies?
There is no world without Verona walls But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
I say, this house is as dark as ignorance, though ignorance were as dark as hell.
Hear me, Queen
I would the fool were married to her grave!
Bring the villain forth.
You are not Pinch’s patient, are you, sir?
Despair and die!
Send out more horses.
Leave me and do the thing I bid thee do.
Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
A noble duke, in nature As in name.
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw In lasting labor of his pilgrimage.
Upon the corner of the moon There hangs a vap'rous drop profound.
If any, speak—for him have I offended.
The gods forbid!
Mean you his majesty?
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.
Let not the heavens hear these telltale women Rail on the Lord’s anointed.
Faith, like enough.
My master stays in the street.
I’ll go along, no such sight to be shown, But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
how, I pray?
Dost thou prate, rogue?
But oh, how oddly will it sound that I Must ask my child forgiveness!
He is knight, dubbed with unhatched rapier and on carpet consideration, but he is a devil in private brawl.
Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter?
A challenge, on my life.
Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed, That you do lie so late?
This a dull sight.
My men should call me “lord.” I am your goodman.
These ears of mine, thou know’st did hear thee.
For she his hairy temples then had rounded With a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers, And that same dew, which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls, Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail.
Who can impress the forest, bid the tree Unfix his earthbound root?
But did you think the Prince would have served you thus?
Of anything the image tell me that Hath kept with thy remembrance.
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Good my lord, enter.
I say “amen.”
Though far more cause, yet much less spirit to curse Abides in me.
Bear me forthwith unto his creditor, And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it.— Good Master Doctor, see him safe conveyed Home to my house.
One.
Go take this shape And hither come in ’t.
I will seek him, sir, presently, convey the business as I shall find means, and acquaint you withal.
There, Diomed, there.
Set on, and leave no ceremony out.
What say you, uncle?
Wooed me to steal it, but she so loves the token (For he conjured her she should ever keep it) That she reserves it evermore about her To kiss and talk to.
My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
Reply not.
What’s your highness’ pleasure?
Go, good Tubal.
What said he?
Ay me, most wretched, That have my heart parted betwixt two friends That does afflict each other!
Rather make My country’s high pyramides my gibbet And hang me up in chains!
She that would be your wife now ran from you.
Peace, peace, Iras.
Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing?— Come, sister, you shall be the priest and marry us.—Give me your hand, Orlando.—What do you say, sister?
Teach me, dear creature, how to think and speak.
O, reform it altogether!
When it is paid according to the tenor.
My life upon her faith!—Honest Iago, My Desdemona must I leave to thee.
Messala, This is my birthday, as this very day Was Cassius born.
Sola!
Madam, not now.
So say I. Methinks you are sadder.
He was a bachelor then.
This is kind I offer.
Methoughts I saw a thousand fearful wracks, A thousand men that fishes gnawed upon, Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl, Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels, All scattered in the bottom of the sea.
What news?
Something he left imperfect in the state which, since his coming forth, is thought of; which imports to the kingdom so much fear and danger that his personal return was most required and necessary.
My life upon ’t, young though thou art, thine eye Hath stay’d upon some favor that it loves.
A baubling vessel was he captain of, For shallow draught and bulk unprizable, With which such scathful grapple did he make With the most noble bottom of our fleet, That very envy and the tongue of loss Cried fame and honor on him.—What’s the matter?
Where’s Seleucus?
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment I had not quoted him.
Go, fetch me something
How now?
Some tardy cripple bear the countermand, That came too lag to see him burièd.
Good old knight, Collect them all together at my tent.
Ay, mother, but I would not have it so.
I am for it, lieutenant, and I’ll do you justice.
He shall kill two of us, and men indeed, But that’s no matter.
Blessed pudding!
The cause is in my will.
Take no note of him.
At once, good night.
Do you not remember, lady, in your father’s time a Venetian, a scholar and a soldier, that came hither in company of the Marquess of Montferrat? 
So long?
No, hath not?
The pale companion is not for our pomp.
I am afraid He will chastise me.
Will you go?
Right joyous are we to behold your face, Most worthy brother England.
Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit, For ’tis a throne where honor may be crowned.
This approves her letter That she would soon be here.
That done, repair to Pompey’s theatre.
I' th' air or th' earth?
I am sure he is in the fleet.
Why dost thou ask?
Her mother hath many times told me so.
I am your own for ever.
My precious Queen, forbear, And give true evidence to his love which stands An honorable trial.
Yes, bring me word, boy, if thy lord look well, For he went sickly forth.
But we both obey And here give up ourselves, in the full bent, To lay our service freely at your feet To be commanded.
Tyrants themselves wept when it was reported.
I should have known no less.
And so in me, and so, I think, in all.
You think I’ll weep?
Love, and be friends as two such men should be.
Thou canst not.
You might have come before.
Good day to both of you.
How now, friend Eros!
How say you to that, Malvolio?
Stand up.
Thou hadst need send for more money.
They are friends, Ratcliffe and Lovell.
I fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old, being so full of unmannerly sadness in his youth.
Tis very much.
I’ll slit the villain’s nose that would have sent me to the jail.
By this hand, Claudio shall render me a dear account.
For once upon a raw and gusty day, The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores, Caesar said to me, “Darest thou, Cassius, now Leap in with me into this angry flood And swim to yonder point?” Upon the word, Accoutred as I was, I plungèd in And bade him follow.
Wast born i' th' forest here?
Let me shake thy hand.
Petruchio is my name, Antonio’s son, A man well known throughout all Italy.
They say there’s but five upon this isle.
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave To tell us this.
Do you put tricks upon ’s with savages and men of Ind, ha?
Fetch Desdemona hither.
How does the queen?
O most false love!
A sweeter and a Lovellier gentleman, Framed in the prodigality of nature, Young, valiant, wise, and, no doubt, right royal, The spacious world cannot again afford.
Whose noise is this that ones on murder?
But he hath chid me hence and threatened me To strike me, spurn me—nay, to kill me too.
O, sixpence, that I had o' Wednesday last To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper?
Tell me your mind.
That’s not an office for a friend, my lord.
There was never counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it.
Thy head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as an egg for quarreling.
I remember The first time ever Caesar put it on.
Tis death for anyone in Mantua To come to Padua.
True is it that we have seen better days And have with holy bell been knolled to church, And sat at good men’s feasts and wiped our eyes Of drops that sacred pity hath engendered.
Some five or six and thirty of his knights, Hot questrists after him, met him at gate, Who with some other of the lord’s dependants Are gone with him towards Dover, where they boast To have well-armèd friends.
Where should she be?
Is my lord well, that he doth speak so wide?
Where are these hearts?
We’ll hear it, Antony.
Be simple-answered, for we know the truth.
Where is my Romeo?
Who’s there?
I did not think he had been acquainted with her.
Now he is a-praying.
Brutus, a word with you.
If it were so, it was a grievous fault, And grievously hath Caesar answered it.
Of what kind should this cock come of?
Let’s make us med'cines of our great revenge, To cure this deadly grief.
Lead me.
Well, then, that’s the humor of ’t.
I am aweary of this moon.
He is composed and framed of treachery, And fled he is upon this villainy.
Upon my honor— Then came each actor on his ass—
I put it in the pocket of my gown.
But I do see you’re moved.
Every subject’s duty is the king’s, but every subject’s soul is his own.
Cobweb.
What do you mean?
Then he shall have no odds.
Speak not.
Why then, the mustard without the beef.
How is the man esteemed here in the city?
Thus from my lips, by thine, my sin is purged.
My lord, I take my leave.
Tom, away!
Who?
I see him rouse himself To praise my noble act.
I do beseech you, sir, have patience.
Who dead?
Why, thou peevish sheep, What ship of Epidamnum stays for me?
Then does he say he lent me Some shipping, unrestored.
Therefore I do advise you, take this note.
All the conspirators save only he Did that they did in envy of great Caesar.
Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it.
Who is it?
Tell her the king, that may command, entreats— That, at her hands, which the king’s King forbids.
What, all so soon asleep?
But while I say one prayer!
And this may help to thicken other proofs That do demonstrate thinly.
Yes, I am.
Shall we shog?
No, not so, villain, thou beliest thyself.
The four strangers seek for you, madam, to take their leave.
I say I will make him eat some part of my leek, or I will peat his pate four days.—Bite, I pray you.
Bring me just notice of the numbers dead On both our parts.
Come on, Nerissa, I have work in hand That you yet know not of.
If thou read this, O Caesar, thou mayst live.
We are three of them.
But soft, behold!
But hollow men, like horses hot at hand, Make gallant show and promise of their mettle.
Forbear me.
Look, with a spot I damn him.
Make all the money thou canst.
That is the sum of all, Leonato.—Signior Claudio and Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all.
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
What’s the matter here?
He doth, for he did bid Antonius Send word to you he would be there tomorrow.
Nay, by 'r Lady, I am not such a fool to think what I list, nor I list not to think what I can, nor indeed I cannot think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in love or that you will be in love or that you can be in love.
They are loves I bear to you.
Oh, how mine eyes do loathe his visage now!
All things in common nature should produce Without sweat or endeavor.
Brother Anthony—
What are they that do play it?
I desire no more delight Than to be under sail and gone tonight.
Is all the counsel that we two have shared, The sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent When we have chid the hasty-footed time For parting us—oh, is it all forgot?
Kill Brutus, and be honored in his death.
What should I think on ’t?
Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.
Nay, I prithee now, with most petitionary vehemence, tell me who it is.
The perdition of th' athversary hath been very great, reasonable great.
Now God in heaven bless thee!
Evermore weeping for your cousin’s death?
Yet I insisted; yet you answered not, But with an angry wafture of your hand Gave sign for me to leave you.
By report I know him well.
Plucking the entrails of an offering forth, They could not find a heart within the beast.
You are a councilor.
Drunk?
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
No, cousin, I’ll to Fife.
Yet Caesar shall go forth, for these predictions Are to the world in general as to Caesar.
I once more take my leave.
Sir, there she stands.
Nor I, my lord, in faith.
I will speak lower.
Where’s Peaseblossom?
What, art thou come?—On, gentlemen, away!
I passed, methought, the melancholy flood, With that sour ferryman which poets write of, Unto the kingdom of perpetual night.
I’ll entreat for thee.
And how besides thyself?
No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favored, for honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar.
Doth thy other mouth call me?
We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
What name, fair lady?
O sweet bully Bottom!
Thou liest.
Are you yet living?
He is welcome too.
This disease is beyond my practice.
That ’scuse serves many men to save their gifts.
The boy was the very staff of my age, my very prop.
Here comes the king, The queen, the courtiers—who is this they follow, And with such maimèd rites?
Without his roe, like a dried herring.
Let them come before Master Constable.
Would it were day!
For the which, as I told you, Antonio shall be bound.
Will you grant with me That Ferdinand is drowned?
I wonder if the lion be to speak.
Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving, And blemish Caesar’s triumph.
What a thrice-double ass Was I, to take this drunkard for a god And worship this dull fool!
For what good turn?
Caesar, I shall.
My duty, madam, and most humble service.
I oft delivered from his forfeitures Many that have at times made moan to me.
God help thee, shallow man.
What is the matter there?
There’s my hand.
One speech in it I chiefly loved.
Orsino.
For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.
You are welcome.
Sweet Prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.— There, Leonato, take her back again.
What, no more?
The usurer hangs the cozener.
I cannot draw a cart, nor eat dried oats.
He shall see none to fear.
We must do something, and i' th' heat.
And I for no woman.
For I have neither wit nor words nor worth, Action nor utterance nor the power of speech, To stir men’s blood.
Dolabella, I shall remain your debtor.
Ay.
Mass, and well said.
Excellent well!
You jig and amble, and you lisp, you nickname God’s creatures and make your wantonness your ignorance.
Is ’t possible?
Tis so—but Edward lives.
With him?
When it is paid, bring your true friend along.
He did comply, sir, with his dug before he sucked it.
Tis wonderful.
Thou dost talk nothing to me.
Messala!
Wherein went he?
What might you think?
Alas, he is betrayed and I undone.
To the jail with him!
But yet I’ll make assurance double sure, And take a bond of fate.
Ha, what sayest thou?
She was too good for me.
Let go my hand.
O God!—O Nurse, how shall this be prevented?
Lie with her?
Nay, I am for all waters.
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel When well-appareled April on the heel Of limping winter treads.
So.— Thus then, thou most renowned
Richard yet lives, hell’s black intelligencer, Only reserved their factor to buy souls And send them thither.
Ay, boy, ready.
He hath no daughters, sir.
I know, sir, I am no flatterer.
And what’s the news, good cousin Lodovico?
He’s dead and rotten.
In what part of her body stands Ireland?
Fare you well.
Within the infant rind of this small flower Poison hath residence and medicine power.
Sir, I bade them take away you.
Come hither, sir.
Hail.
Who, Sir Andrew Aguecheek?
You wrong me every way.
M”—Malvolio.
Good morrow, old Sir Thomas Erpingham.
Then, gentle brother, get you in again.
Ay, boy.
Be quiet, people.
And God forbid, my dear and faithful lord, That you should fashion, wrest, or bow your reading, Or nicely charge your understanding soul With opening titles miscreate, whose right Suits not in native colors with the truth; For God doth know how many now in health Shall drop their blood in approbation
Than my Lord Hastings no man might be bolder.
I would thou couldst.
Here I’ll sit i' th' midst.
Gracious England hath Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men; An older and a better soldier none That Christendom gives out.
Where are they?
Ah, Luciana, did he tempt thee so?
My decayèd fair A sunny look of his would soon repair.
He waxes desperate with imagination.
Do we so.
Within this hour it will be dinnertime.
We shall be the more marketable.—Bonjour, Monsieur Le Beau.
Couch we a while and mark.
 time is his only master, and when the right moment comes along, he’ll come or go as he pleases.
Good morrow, neighbor, whither away so fast?
Heavenly powers, restore him!
What means your grace?
If she confess that she was half the wooer, Destruction on my head if my bad blame Light on the man.—Come hither, gentle mistress.
Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
Ay, good my lord.
Who’s that?
Dost thou lie so low?
The earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment— Good Captain Blunt, bear my goodnight to him, And by the second hour in the morning Desire the earl to see me in my tent.
I could do more to do Antonius good, But ’twould offend him, and in his offense Should my performance perish.
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night.
But is this law?
Anon!
Leave all the rest to me.
Farewell.
And I pray thee now tell me, for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
I will debate this matter at more leisure And teach your ears to list me with more heed.
What, Curio?
I am glad to see your highness.
I’ll see it done.
I thank you; and be blessed for your good comfort.
My love is thine to teach.
Remember’st thou any that have died on ’t?
What is she?
O woeful sympathy, Piteous predicament!
Then by your side no bed room me deny.
Therefore I say with noble Buckingham That it is meet so few should fetch the prince.
And she as much in love, her means much less To meet her new beloved anywhere.
How now!
The little dogs and all, Tray, Blanch, and Sweetheart—see, they bark at me.
And Cassio killed!
I had my father’s signet in my purse, Which was the model of that Danish seal.
You might do much.
I’ll none of it.
Go, bring them in.—And take your places, ladies.
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
Let me live here ever.
And I the king shall love thee.
Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.
What stay had we but Clarence?
Why, what’s the matter?
If his fitness speaks, mine is ready, now or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
Nor no one here, for curses never pass The lips of those that breathe them in the air.
Yet keep the French the field.
What dost you mean by this?
This is old.
Now, soldiers, march away, And how Thou pleasest, God, dispose the day.
Ah, Rosencrantz!
Lovers, make moan.
But for your private satisfaction, Because I love you, I will let you know.
God save you, sir.
Then fly!
No, my lord.
Be not afraid of greatness.” 'Twas well writ.
If thou darest tempt me further, draw thy sword.
This I wonder at, That he, unknown to me, should be in debt.
I will, my lord.
Believe me, I cannot.
In spite of your heart, I think.
I thank you.
Why look you pale?
Fare you well, Jessica.
Now we speak upon our cue, and our voice is imperial.
But here’s a parchment with the seal of Caesar.
Cassio, my lord?
Go to.
Farewell.
Forbear to sleep the nights, and fast the days; Compare dead happiness with living woe; Think that thy babes were sweeter than they were, And he that slew them fouler than he is.
Dost grant me, hedgehog?
Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace, And offer me disguised in sober robes To old Baptista as a schoolmaster Well seen in music, to instruct Bianca, That so I may, by this device at least, Have leave and leisure to make love to her And, unsuspected, court her by herself.
My hour is almost come When I to sulfurous and tormenting flames Must render up myself.
I shall never see my gold again.
Is thy name Tyrrel?
Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast.
I know I can do it.
There, take it; and much thanks for my good cheer.
I’ll grow a talker for this gear.
Here lies your way.
They must lie there.
So could I too.
I held the sword and he did run on it.
And I mine.
Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you cannot play upon me. 
A bitter fool.
Will you go with me?
Drown cats and blind puppies!
A pox o' your bottle!
From seventeen years till now almost fourscore Here livèd I, but now live here no more.
Hark, Tranio!
I would I were senseless, sir, that I might not feel your blows.
I’ll bring you to him.
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly.
Alas, poor rogue, I think indeed she loves me.
It is enacted in the laws of Venice, If it be proved against an alien That by direct or indirect attempts He seek the life of any citizen, The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive Shall seize one half his goods.
This I made good to you In our last conference, passed in probation with you, How you were borne in hand, how crossed, the instruments, Who wrought with them, and all things else that might To half a soul and to a notion crazed Say, “Thus did Banquo.”      You made it known to us.
But they’ll nor pinch, Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i' th' mire, Nor lead me like a firebrand in the dark Out of my way, unless he bid 'em.
Oh, heaven have mercy on me!
Then I know My answer must be made.
Live a thousand years, I shall not find myself so apt to die.
This, this.
Truly, sir, all that I live by is with the awl.
I saw him put down the other day with an ordinary fool that
Nay, I know not.
Our purposes God justly hath discovered, And I repent my fault more than my death, Which I beseech Your Highness to forgive, Although my body pay the price of it.
Then heaven Have mercy on me!
Excellent good, i' faith.
How do you, Cassio?—Oh, a chair, a chair!
Then I beat my tabor, At which, like unbacked colts, they pricked their ears, Advanced their eyelids, lifted up their noses As they smelt music.
My most exquisite Sir Topas!
Why looks your grace so heavily today?
Have I not heard great ordnance in the field, And heaven’s artillery thunder in the skies?
Marry, if he that writ it had played Pyramus and hanged himself in Thisbe’s garter, it would have been a fine tragedy.
O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work To match thy goodness?
Bear him my head.
We found him in the churchyard.
How long within this wood intend you stay?
Get you a place.
You, uncivil lady, To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars My soul the faithfull’st off'rings have breathed out That e'er devotion tendered—what shall I do?
I am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you.
And therefore, since I cannot prove a lover To entertain these fair well-spoken days, I am determinèd to prove a villain And hate the idle pleasures of these days.
This lion is a very fox, for his valor.
I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body.
It is too heavy for your Grace to wear.
Thou'rt i' the right.
For my uncle is King of Denmark, and those that would make mouths at him while my father lived give twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little.
But first I’ll turn yon fellow in his grave And then return lamenting to my love.
Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes.
I would forget it fain, But oh, it presses to my memory, Like damnèd guilty deeds to sinners' minds.
What, worse and worse?— With leave, Bassanio, I am half yourself, And I must freely have the half of anything That this same paper brings you.
Let them set on at once, for I perceive But cold demeanor in Octavius' wing, And sudden push gives them the overthrow.
Again!
Farewell!
Hail, mortal.
The last was I that felt thy tyranny.
Thou shalt buy this dear If ever I thy face by daylight see.
This seen, Orlando did approach the man And found it was his brother, his elder brother.
In Kent, my liege, the Guilfords are in arms, And every hour more competitors Flock to the rebels, and their power grows strong.
Note him, Note him, good Charmian, ’tis the man, but note him.
 please, agree to marry us today.
Shall I strike now?
Then meet me forthwith at the notary’s.
Why, every day, tomorrow.
Set me where you stand.
Whose house?
But fear not yet To take upon you what is yours.
Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister.
What should I do I do not?
Why then, God’s soldier be he!
How are they escoted?
This is open.
Not with salt tears.
Crown him that, And then I grant we put a sting in him That at his will he may do danger with.
Marked you not How that the guilty kindred of the queen Looked pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
Yea, Richard, when I know, for I protest As yet I do not.
For often, with a solemn earnestness— More than indeed belonged to such a trifle— He begged of me to steal it.
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
     Translate.
And so she did.
We came hither to fight with you.
Are you native of this place?
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight, Till our scale turn the beam.
There’s not a piece of feather in our host— Good argument, I hope, we will not fly— And time hath worn us into slovenry.
This is mere madness.
They call it Agincourt.
I say a husband.
So could I, faith, boy, to have the next wish after, That Lucentio indeed had Baptista’s youngest daughter.
Not a drop before.
If your leisure served, I would speak with you.
I cry you mercy, uncle.—By your Grace’s pardon.
Ay, sir.
Now, by heaven, My blood begins my safer guides to rule, And passion, having my best judgment collied, Assays to lead the way.
We’ll overreach the graybeard, Gremio, The narrow-prying father, Minola, The quaint musician, amorous Litio, All for my master’s sake, Lucentio.
That’s very true, my lord.
Soon may I hear and see him.
Puppet”?
Hast thou found my daughter?
Infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the better fool.
But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn, Brandished by man that’s of a woman born.
And died that day when Viola from her birth Had numbered thirteen years.
Let no such man be trusted.
You look as you had something more to say.
I looked her in the face, and saw her led Between her brother and Mark Antony.
 you have been a great thief at sea.
Shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits, And give their fasting horses provender, And after fight with them?
Shall I speak a word in your ear?
Alas, you know not.
Draw the curtains—so, so, so.
I should not then ask Casca what had chanced.
Whither are you going?
I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip.
How I have thought of this and of these times I shall recount hereafter.
Is he well shipped?
Think it no more.
So that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed up thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs or distract it with many—either to have it sterile with idleness, or manured with industry—why, the power and corrigible authority of this lies in our wills.
He has broke my head across and has given Sir Toby a bloody coxcomb too.
Now, where’s my wife?
Nay, then, thou mock’st me.
Why, how now, Charmian?
Oh!
And smelt so?
Said you so?
How now, cousin Hero!
Good countrymen, let me depart alone.
Revenges burn in them, for their dear causes Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm Excite the mortified man.
We cannot be here and there too.
Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee?
I told him you were asleep.
We cannot fight for love as men may do.
Thus I’ll visit her.
But get thee back.
Do Poor Tom some charity, whom the foul fiend vexes.
Apollo plays, And twenty cagèd nightingales do sing
Good majesty, Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you But when you are well pleased.
If I find a hole in his coat, I will tell him my mind.
If there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of Caesar’s, to him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his.
May I with right and conscience make this claim?
Begone!
How now, my noble friend?
 the courtier’s perfume is made from cat discharge—much more disgusting than tar.
Come, sit down, every mother’s son, and rehearse your parts.—Pyramus, you begin.
Draw thy sword.
Come, put mine armor on.
Hold you the watch tonight?
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labor.
Not mad, but bound more than a madman is, Shut up in prison, kept without my food, Whipped and tormented and—Good e'en, good fellow.
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
Or came it by request and such fair question As soul to soul affordeth?
Why, he was met even now As mad as the vexed sea, singing aloud, Crowned with rank fumiter and furrow-weeds, With burdocks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo-flowers, Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow In our sustaining corn.—A century send forth.
Ay, madam.
A thing for me?
Is it so long?— Call forth the holy father.
Good, speak to th' mariners.
Shake it off.
Sometime a horse I’ll be, sometime a hound, A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire.
Will you go see the order of the course?
Tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus.
It is here, Hamlet.
And where the worser is predominant, Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
The skies are painted with unnumbered sparks.
It is both he and she
I was of late as petty to his ends As is the morn-dew on the myrtle leaf To his grand sea.
Why, look you how you storm!
If you be gentlemen, Do me this right
My lord, your promise for the earldom— Richmond!
And, sister, as the winds give benefit And convey is assistant, do not sleep, But let me hear from you.
For himself to mar,” quoth he?
Take up my mistress' gown to his master’s use!
Tis true, this god did shake!
I’ll go and chat with Paris.
Saving your merry humor, here’s the note How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat, The fineness of the gold, and chargeful fashion, Which doth amount to three-odd ducats more Than I stand debted to this gentleman.
Hail, Caesar, and my lord!
Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career, an you charge it against me.
Ay.
On the ground  Sleep sound.
Here will we sit and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears.
I stay here on my bond.
And now I have the boy, I will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes.
And let those that play your clowns speak no more than is set down for them, for there be of them that will themselves laugh to set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh too, though in the meantime some necessary question of the play be then to be considered.
About it, and write “happy” when thou’st done.
I will here shroud till the dregs of the storm be past.
But, O grief, Where hast thou led me?
I’ll serve this duke.
Brutus shall lead, and we will grace his heels With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome.
Do not you hear a cry?
Husband?
By this, I think, the dial points at five.
Leave you!
Now I see, I see, In Fulvia’s death how mine received shall be.
An if I be, sir, is it any offense?
Romeo, he cries aloud, “Hold, friends!
You have me, have you not?
None but friends.
Come, come, we know your meaning, brother Gloucester.
Tis heavy night, These may be counterfeits.
What shall we hear of this?
Tis Cinna.
No, coz, I rather weep.
Me, a groat?
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here Shalt with him hence.
Let it be so.
It did come to his hands, and commands shall be executed.
But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
What poor an instrument May do a noble deed!
At last I left them I' th' filthy-mantled pool beyond your cell, There dancing up to th' chins, that the foul lake O'erstunk their feet.
No.
Tybalt, my cousin!
Please you, draw near.—Louder the music there!
The next, our ship— Which, but three glasses since, we gave out split— Is tight and yare and bravely rigged as when We first put out to sea.
Against all rules of nature, and must be driven To find out practices of cunning hell Why this should be.
At land indeed Thou dost o’ercount me of my father’s house, But since the cuckoo builds not for himself, Remain in ’t as thou mayst.
Then none have I offended.
Where’s satisfaction?
Say what, is Horatio there?
And I have been all this day to avoid him.
You have heard much.
What he will do with it Heaven knows, not I. I nothing but to please his fantasy.
I know thee, Roderigo.
Stay!
I understand a fury in your words, But not the words.
Do.
Nay, that’s certain.
Come.
Do not bid me speak.
If I do not love her, I am a Jew.
If thou consider rightly of the matter, Caesar has had great wrong.
I was sure your lordship did not give it me.
My books and instruments shall be my company, On them to look and practice by myself.
You shall be more beloving than beloved. 
Kill the poys and the luggage!
Out upon her!
Brutus killed me. 
Ay, ay.
Filth, thou liest!
You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
No, I will be the pattern of all patience.
He brushes his hat o' mornings.
We’ll speak to them, and tonight I’ll force The wine peep through their scars.—Come on, my Queen, There’s sap in ’t yet.
God save you, sir!
I think it be.
Where is the fellow?
Here, catch this casket.
Then let the trumpets sound The tucket sonance and the note to mount, For our approach shall so much dare the field That England shall couch down in fear and yield.
He sups tonight with a harlotry, and thither will I go to him.
We’ll go along together, And ere we have thy youthful wages spent, We’ll light upon some settled low content.
The same.
And since you know you cannot see yourself So well as by reflection, I, your glass, Will modestly discover to yourself That of yourself which you yet know not of.
Come, civil night, Thou sober-suited matron, all in black, And learn me how to lose a winning match Played for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.
Oh, then belike you fancy riches more.
It is meat and drink to me to see a clown.
You must translate.
Do not torment me, prithee.
Give him a halter.
Will you have me, lady?
She said so.
If I stand here, I saw him.
Well, Jove, not I, is the doer of this, and he is to be thanked. 
We will go walk a little in the orchard, And then to dinner.
Goneril with a white beard?
What ring gave you my lord?
What is ’t, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
We have engaged ourselves too far.
Hard, hard.—O filthy traitor!
None, man.
Tis he.
Sooth, madam, I hear nothing.
Full half an hour.
Here was he merry, hearing of a song.
Since they did plot The means that dusky Dis my daughter got, Her and her blind boy’s scandaled company I have forsworn.
Thou most lying slave, Whom stripes may move, not kindness!
So should a murderer look, so dead, so grim.
Why, fare thee well, King.
Swagger?
Let not my worser spirit tempt me again To die before you please.
Music, ho!
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but at the next turning of all on your left.
Thy thoughts I cleave to.
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night, Like softest music to attending ears!
Follow, and see there be no harm between them.
Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back know you the reason?
His death’s upon him, but not dead.
Fellow, I know thee.
What’s your gracious pleasure?
It is.
Methought I heard a voice cry, “Sleep no more!
Obey you, love you, and most honor you.
Farewell, kind lord.
Horn mad, thou villain!
This grief is crowned with consolation.
By my troth, thou hast an open hand.
If you would know your wronger, look on me.
I loved you not.
Nothing.
O the blessed gods!
Robin Starveling, you must play Thisbe’s mother.—Tom Snout, the tinker?
Why, we shall make him mad indeed.
Never in your life, I think, unless you see canary put me down.
Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?
I have an humor to knock you indifferently well.
Or, failing so, yet that I put the Moor At least into a jealousy so strong That judgment cannot cure.
I will not swear these are my hands.
My gracious sovereign, now in Devonshire, As I by friends am well advertisèd, Sir Edward Courtney and the haughty prelate, Bishop of Exeter, his elder brother, With many more confederates are in arms.
Come, Sir Andrew, there’s no remedy.
Declare thine office.
Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
A privilege never to see me more.
I hate the Moor, And it is thought abroad that ’twixt my sheets He’s done my office.
And he’s gone.
Come.
Let this pernicious hour Stand aye accursèd in the calendar!
Behind the arras I’ll convey myself To hear the process.
Sweet Phoebe, do not scorn me.
See for the news.
Farewell, kind master.
One word more, honest neighbors.
Now, where’s your master?
Put on my crown.
Is ’t not enough, is ’t not enough, young man, That I did never, no, nor never can, Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye, But you must flout my insufficiency?
Signor Antonio, many a time and oft In the Rialto you have rated me About my moneys and my usances.
Good faith, a little one, not past a pint, As I am a soldier.
Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
So foolish sorrows bids your stones farewell.
I will, my lord, with all convenient haste.
What years, i' faith?
With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must.
So are those crispèd snaky golden locks Which maketh such wanton gambols with the wind, Upon supposèd fairness, often known To be the dowry of a second head, The skull that bred them in the sepulcher.
Temperance was a delicate wench.
If thou hast her not i' the end, call me “Cut.”  If I do not, never trust me, take it how you will.
Therefore I promise ye I fear you.
Truly, I think they are.
So he served the second, and so the third.
Pardon the frankness of my mirth if I answer you for that.
See where she comes and brings your froward wives As prisoners to her womanly persuasion.— Katherine, that cap of yours becomes you not.
Right, I mean you.
If trembling I inhabit then, protest me The baby of a girl.
Then every soldier kill his prisoners.
Peace then!
They are sick?
Well, your imprisonment shall not be long.
If ever he have wife, let her be made More miserable by the death of him Than I am made by my poor lord and thee.— Come now towards Chertsey with your holy load, Taken from Paul’s to be interrèd there.
Dost thou think If I would stand against thee, would the reposal Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee Make thy words faithed?
No, pray thee, good Meg, I’ll wear this.
Will you hear ’t again?
Follow me.
Rest you merry!
Oh, villain!
Her eyes are fierce, but thine Do comfort and not burn.
My brave spirit!
It is as easy as lying.
That last is true.
I serve you, madam.
My lord Sebastian, The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness And time to speak it in.
I am weary of you. 
Worthy Macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
Good Master Peaseblossom, I shall desire you of more acquaintance too.— Your name, I beseech you, sir?
Even so lies she, Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
Fare thee well awhile.
And do still, by these pickers and stealers.
A tailor make a man?
But if I had wit enough to get out of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn.
He cannot live, I hope, and must not die Till George be packed with post-horse up to heaven.
A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.
This is a most majestic vision, and Harmonious charmingly.
Cold friends to me.
They know your Grace hath cause and means and might; So hath your Highness.
Thou art not conquered.
I might have saved her.
He is well paid that is well satisfied.
I’ll be your purse-bearer and leave you For an hour.
O upright, just, and true-disposing God, How do I thank thee that this carnal cur Preys on the issue of his mother’s body And makes her pew-fellow with others' moan!
Here comes the lady.
Is there any cause in nature that makes these hard hearts?
More of this hereafter.
This disturbèd sky Is not to walk in.
Draw, you rogue, or I’ll so carbonado your shanks.
Hath she forgot already that brave prince, Edward, her lord, whom I some three months since Stabbed in my angry mood at Tewkesbury?
And so of men.
But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
What men have you lost, Fluellen?
It’s true, good lieutenant.
Tis certain then for Cyprus.
And now methinks I have a mind to it.
Who was last with them?
Cassio, may you suspect Who they should be that have thus mangled you?
What, are there masques?
Then, if ever thou dar’st acknowledge it, I will make it my quarrel.
I know not, Menas, How lesser enmities may give way to greater.
By the fire That quickens Nilus’ slime, I go from hence Thy soldier, servant, making peace or war As thou affects.
And I do think she’s thirty.
Slay!
Hath there been such a time—I would fain know that— That I have positively said, “'Tis so,” When it proved otherwise?
No.
Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest your daughter told.
Speak not of Helena.
Witless else her son.
Alas Iago, What shall I do to win my lord again?
I must be circumstanced.
Peace!
Get you to bed on th' instant, I will be returned Forthwith.
I am strong-framed.
But Antonio is certainly undone.
But you’ll be secret?
And so adieu, sir.
Your reason?
The moon methinks looks with a watery eye.
So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason.
Whence are you, sir?
What Conrade!
What’s the news?
My little spirit, see, Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me.
Twas a fault unwilling.
Meet me and Gratiano At Gratiano’s lodging some hour hence.
But all the charms of love, Salt Cleopatra, soften thy wanned lip!
And wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love, so rich within his soul, And tender me, forsooth, affection, But by your setting on, by your consent?
Yet could I bear that too, well, very well.
Wouldst thou give 'em all?
Tarry a little.
You slave, you cur!
Groan!
But there’s no goodness in thy face—if Antony Be free and healthful, so tart a favor To trumpet such good tidings!
Comes there any more of it?
Searching the window for a flint, I found This paper, thus sealed up, and I am sure It did not lie there when I went to bed.
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet, Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
Why is this “impawned,” as you call it?
We have kissed away Kingdoms and provinces.
I am your neighbor, and was suitor first.
Go to, I’ll no more on ’t.
How?
What’s that?
Do you withdraw yourself a little while,
Under a compelling occasion, let women die.
If such a one be fit to govern, speak.
May we be gone?
How now, my lord!
Oh, God defend me!
Oh, excellent!
Upon my power I may dismiss this court, Unless Bellario, a learnèd doctor, Whom I have sent for to determine this, Come here today.
I did, my lord.
Here comes Oberon.
I pray you, know me when we meet again.
Tis no less, I tell you, for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon.
I can hardly forbear hurling things at him.
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders Of his affection to me.
Let us on heaps go offer up our lives.
Face not me.
Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail, Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak.
Casca, be sudden, for we fear prevention —Brutus, what shall be done?
Here he is, here he is.
I shall entreat him To answer like himself.
Wilt thou, Strato?
Well, well, put up your sword.
I take my leave of you.
Ha, ha, ha!
Two of my brother’s men bound!
Go to, go to.
But good lieutenant, is your general wived?
Who are they?
Nor anyone.
Why, now, as fast as she can marry us.
Captain Fluellen.
Hortensio, hark.
For I am almost ready to dissolve, Hearing of this.
It does, my boy.
The “why” is plain as way to parish church
And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck.
By my troth, I will speak my conscience of the king.
Let me see. 
No, not for all the world.
Why then, good night indeed.
We’ll hear a play tomorrow.
As I!
Another hit.
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
Alas, their love may be called appetite, No motion of the liver, but the palate, That suffer surfeit, cloyment, and revolt; But mine is all as hungry as the sea, And can digest as much.
Romeo will answer it.
Was the hope drunk Wherein you dressed yourself?
It is “music with her silver sound” because musicians have no gold for sounding.
I do defy thy commination And apprehend thee for a felon here.
Your Emperor Continues still a Jove.
Age, thou art shamed!
If they deny to come, Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands.
Do it at once, Or thy precedent services are all But accidents unpurposed.
We are bound to the like.
What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?
And cross-gartered?
But, Othello, speak.
Who is ’t that cried?
We should have met you By sea and land, supplying every stage With an augmented greeting.
Wherefore did you so?
Men’s eyes were made to look and let them gaze.
Hail to your grace.
You said the enemy would not come down But keep the hills and upper regions.
Do but go after And mark how he continues.
I will, lady.
Ay, marry, is ’t.
It nothing ill becomes thee.— Aboard my galley I invite you all.
When holy and devout religious men Are at their beads, ’tis much to draw them thence, So sweet is zealous contemplation.
How say you, lady?
By my hand I swear, and my father’s soul, the work ish ill done.
I cannot speak of this.
O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend In moral paradise of such sweet flesh?
Signor Bassanio!
See, see, here comes the man we went to seek.
Come, sir, away.
Look in my face.
I do embrace your offer; and dispose For henceforth of poor Claudio.
I beseech thee, youth, Put not another sin upon my head By urging me to fury.
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
Fool!
I’ll put myself in poor and mean attire And with a kind of umber smirch my face.
Not I, sir.
Will it not be received, When we have marked with blood those sleepy two Of his own chamber and used their very daggers, That they have done ’t?
Poisoned, then.
No, truly, for the truest poetry is the most feigning, and lovers are given to poetry, and what they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign.
O, what more favor can I do to thee, Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain To sunder his that was thine enemy?
After the battle let George Stanley die.
Then tell me, what makes he upon the seas?
Here comes the lady.
But when we in our viciousness grow hard— Oh, misery on ’t!—the wise gods seel our eyes, In our own filth drop our clear judgments, make us Adore our errors, laugh at ’s while we strut To our confusion.
We never valued this poor seat of England And therefore, living hence, did give ourself To barbarous license, as ’tis ever common That men are merriest when they are from home.
I remember the story.
He does hear me, And that he does I weep.
He would not take the crown.
His grace hath made the match, and all grace say “Amen” to it.
I am Launcelot, your boy that was, your son that is, your child that shall be.
Besides, he brings his destiny with him.
We therefore have great cause of thankfulness And shall forget the office of our hand Sooner than quittance of desert and merit According to the weight and worthiness.
No, truly not, although until last night I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow.
Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
And so, my lord, adieu.
How dost thou feel thyself now?
Spake you with him?
That hath made him mad.
I shall do well.
And what hope is that, I pray thee?
Speak.
You, Roderigo!
It must appear in other ways than words, Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.
Who’s there, in th' other devil’s name?
What would my lord?
We follow thee.—Juliet, the county stays.
A piece of ice.
O Pyramus, arise!
Heavens thank you for ’t!
Is it e'en so?
If more, the more thou’st wronged me.
True, sir.
You look not well, Signor Antonio.
Well thought upon.
Is it a world to hide virtues in?
Epicurism and lust Make it more like a tavern or a brothel Than a graced palace.
Why should you think that I should woo in scorn?
Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and mother.
O earth!
And here am I, and wood within this wood, Because I cannot meet my Hermia.
Carthage?
Nay, press not so upon me.
Say again, where didst thou leave these varlets?
Scant not my cups, and make as much of me As when mine empire was your fellow too, And suffered my command.
Bring it hither to me in the orchard.
You did.
Where hast thou been, my heart?
Antony, Leave thy lascivious wassails.
And I trow this is his house.
No more perchance does mine, nor his, nor hers.
But, hark, I hear the footing of a man.
Hear the ambassadors.
But for the handkerchief— By heaven, I would most gladly have forgot it.
To have no man come over me!
In time we hate that which we often fear.
The gods best know—                                              Oh never was there queen So mightily betrayed!
A night is but small breath and little pause To answer matters of this consequence.
What does this mean, my lord?
Love me or love me not, I like the cap, And it I will have, or I will have none.
Mustardseed.
Perform ’t, or else we damn thee.”                                                                     How, my love?
For your desire to know what is between us, O'ermaster ’t as you may.
Why, madam, if I were your father’s dog, You should not use me so.
Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or a prop?
Her eye discourses.
I’ll end my exhortation after dinner.
Come, woo me, woo me, for now I am in a holiday humor, and like enough to consent.
Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor so old to dote on her for anything.
Are your doors locked?
Wherefore is that?
Naught’s had, all’s spent, Where our desire is got without content.
I had rather be married to a death’s-head with a bone in his mouth than to either of these.
Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
Didst thou not hear their shouts?
Four days will quickly steep themselves in night.
Then, lest he may, prevent.
Do we but find the tyrant’s power tonight, Let us be beaten if we cannot fight.
What it is, my Caius, I shall unfold to thee as we are going To whom it must be done.
Caesar hath sent—                                        Too slow a messenger.
The noblest deer hath them as huge as the rascal.
Nature presently distilled Helen’s cheek, but not her heart, Cleopatra’s majesty, Atalanta’s better part, Sad Lucretia’s modesty.
Why, man, what is the matter?
You rise to play and go to bed to work.
On their sustaining garments not a blemish, But fresher than before.
I go, I go.
Ay, my good lord.
Come hither, fellow.
All these old witnesses—I cannot err— Tell me thou art my son Antipholus.
Your rye-straw hats put on, And these fresh nymphs encounter every one In country footing.
Ay.
And we’ll wear out In a walled prison packs and sects of great ones That ebb and flow by the moon.
Methinks I could not die anywhere so contented as in the king’s company, his cause being just and his quarrel honorable.
The will!
Art thou mad?
He shall not go to prison.
Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match And on the wager lay two earthly women, And Portia one, there must be something else Pawned with the other, for the poor rude world Hath not her fellow.
You thought because he could not speak English in the native garb, he could not therefore handle an English cudgel.
If I do prove her haggard, Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings, I’d whistle her off and let her down the wind To prey at fortune.
Never hung poison on a fouler toad.
Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
Censure me in your wisdom, and awake your senses that you may the better judge.
I found her trimming up the diadem On her dead mistress.
One heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one troth.
We’ll know all our fortunes.
Nay then, I’ll run.
Who riseth from a feast With that keen appetite that he sits down?
Behold it stained With his most noble blood.
If Sir Toby would leave drinking, thou wert as witty a piece of Eve’s flesh as any in Illyria.
I must be cruel only to be kind.
I have two nights watched with you but can perceive no truth in your report.
Who’s there?
Let me go.
 sound out Lord Hastings, but make it seem as if you’re just mulling over the idea, that it hasn’t been firmed up yet.
Run after that same peevish messenger, The county’s man.
Yes, nightingales answer daws!
What’s he That was not born of woman?
Stop it, Marcellus.
Farewell, and thanks.
Knock, knock!
I once did lend my body for his wealth, Which but for him that had your husband’s ring Had quite miscarried.
I pardon that man’s life.
So, so, so, so!
And why should Caesar be a tyrant then?
Oh, that I were a man for his sake!
I know not how to pray your patience, Yet I must speak.
Need you my help?
The things that threatened me Ne'er looked but on my back.
Hark, hark!
Relent, and save your souls.
Therefore forbear awhile.
As wit and fortune will.
It is well done and fitting for a princess Descended of so many royal kings.
That will be ere the set of sun.
I will discharge thee ere I go from thee.
And when goes hence?
What should I do with him?
There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee.
Hark!
Tis clean out of the way.
Is it good e'en?
Alas, why gnaw you so your nether lip?
Tis past, and so am I.
Happier than this— She is not bred so dull but she can learn.
And so say I.
How now, who calls?
True or false, it hath made thee Earl of Gloucester.
Hark thee, Dardanius.
Perhaps you have learned it without book.
As if that name, Shot from the deadly level of a gun, Did murder her, as that name’s cursed hand Murdered her kinsman.
O mercy, God!
Inform her full of my particular fear, And thereto add such reasons of your own As may compact it more.
Say, what?
Wherefore!
Witness you That he is borne about invisible.
 pour affection in one end, and it runs out the other.
I was always plain with you, and so now I speak my agitation of the matter.
Thy smiles become thee well.
You shall have none ill, sir, for I’ll try if they can lick their fingers.
Farewell, therefore, Hero.
To move is to stir, and to be valiant is to stand.
O my good lord, Believe not all, or, if you must believe, Stomach not all.
Tomorrow night look that thou lie alone.
Then there’s hope a great man’s memory may outlive his life half a year.
Therefore your Grace may well say I have lost it.
I will send for him, and question him yourself.
The old priest at Saint Luke’s Church is at your command at all hours.
Bid him therefore consider of his ransom, which must proportion the losses we have borne, the subjects we have lost, the disgrace we have digested, which, in weight to reanswer, his pettiness would bow under.
Scout me for him at the corner the orchard like a bum-baily.
Mark Antony In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make No wars without doors.
Come, shall I make you two friends?
Chill pick your teeth, zir.
Now let thy friendly hand Put strength enough to ’t.
I know his heart.
A coward, a most devout coward, religious in it.
Even as men wracked upon a sand, that look to be washed off the next tide.
What harmony is this?
Hear his speech but say thou nought.
No noise, and enter.
And say besides that in Aleppo once, Where a malignant and a turbaned Turk Beat a Venetian and traduced the state, I took by the throat the circumcisèd dog, And smote him, thus.
I’ll follow you.
How shall we find the concord of this discord?
Do we trouble you?
Why, he’s a devil, a devil, a very fiend.  
Tis pity that thou liv’st To walk where any honest men resort.
Good morrow, neighbor Gremio.—God save you, gentlemen!
Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
Bid the players make haste.
Look you, sad friends, The gods rebuke me, but it is tidings To wash the eyes of kings.
Friends, begone.
Oh, that I were a fool!
Touch her soft mouth, and march.
A credulous father, and a brother noble— Whose nature is so far from doing harms That he suspects none, on whose foolish honesty My practices ride easy.
By my knavery (if I had it), then I were.
He dares not come there for the candle.
The time is very short.
 have faith that she’ll eventually explain why she shut the doors on you today.
I am his brother, and I love him well.
And when she went away now, “Let this fellow be looked to.” “Fellow!” Not “Malvolio,” nor after my degree, but “fellow.” Why, everything adheres together, that no dram of a scruple, no scruple of a scruple, no obstacle, no incredulous or unsafe circumstance—what can be said?
Pray God it be, sir.
We, at the height, are ready to decline.
My love thou art, my love, I think.
Yea, art thou there?
Then keep thy vow, sirrah, when thou meet’st the fellow.
Why did he so?
And who is England’s king but great York’s heir?
Stephano!
The Queen Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she From Egypt drive her all-disgracèd friend Or take his life there.
Is he gone and hath nothing?
Myself?
But come thy ways.
Why, how now, Hecate!
Then yield thee, coward, And live to be the show and gaze o' th' time.
He shall pay for him that hath him, and that soundly.
Tonight I take my leave.
Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot, Myself to be a marv'lous proper man.
What bloody man is that?
And so she doth, cousin.
They all do hate him As rootedly as I.
What dost thou think?
Ay, my lord.
Here was a Caesar!
Did I deserve no more than a fool’s head?
To a nunnery, go. 
How say you by this change?
I think I told your lordship a year since how much I am in the favor of Margaret, the waiting gentlewoman to Hero.
Safe, Antony.
I’ll die for ’t but some woman had the ring.
I think you are all mated or stark mad.
Why, then, tomorrow night, or Tuesday morn.
I must love you and sue to know you better.
If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourself into stitches, follow me.
Adieu, good Queen.
Speak yet.
Something we will determine.
Oh, are you come, Iago?
You see an ass head of your own, do you?
My son Came then into my mind, and yet my mind Was then scarce friends with him.
What says your Highness to my just request?
He stays upon your will.
You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither.
I know where I will wear this dagger then.
I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted with thee.
Was ’t not the way?
My duty to you both, on equal love, Great kings of France and England.
You are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch; therefore bear you the lantern.
He is afeard to come.
One knocks.
Know you what Caesar means to do with me?
Wilt thou not, Jule?” It stinted and said “ay.” And stint thou too, I pray thee, Nurse, say I.
Where are his eyes?
Fortune, that arrant whore,  Ne'er turns the key to th' poor.
This morning are they fled away and gone, And in their steads do ravens, crows, and kites Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us As we were sickly prey.
Sweet Hero, now thy image doth appear In the rare semblance that I loved it first.
That I have labored With all my wits, my pains, and strong endeavors, To bring your most imperial Majesties Unto this bar and royal interview, Your mightiness on both parts best can witness.
If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard’s Castle, Where you shall find me well accompanied With reverend fathers and well-learnèd bishops.
Oh, it is my love.
After a little time, I’ll beat him too.
I’ll warrant she’ll tax him home.
Leave me with haste.
And there assume some other horrible form, Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason And draw you into madness?
You see how full of changes his age is.
The dram of evil Doth all the noble substance of a doubt To his own scandal.
Here love, thou seest how diligent I am, To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee.
Grumio gave order how it should be done.
What’s your grace’s will?
Thou look’st like him that knows a warlike charge.
And I’ll sleep.
And aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
And you, good sir.
A fair woman!
Which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young.
What noise?
Pitiful sight!
No, madam.
She’s dead too, our sovereign.
But for his purpose in the coronation, I have not sounded him, nor he delivered His gracious pleasure any way therein.
In bed asleep while they do dream things true.
Furthermore, I pray you show my youth old Shylock’s house.
You come to me and you say, “Shylock, we would have moneys.” You say so!— You, that did void your rheum upon my beard And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur Over your threshold!
Gremio, ’tis now no time to vent our love.
Now she holds me not.
Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
Mend when thou canst.
The king is mad.
Of love?
But this place is too cold for hell.
That I did love the Moor to live with him, My downright violence and storm of fortunes May trumpet to the world.
Here is a place reserved, sir.
The wildest hath not such a heart as you.
The slip, sir, the slip.
How may the Duke be therewith satisfied, Whose messengers are here about my side Upon some present business of the state To bring me to him?
O heavens!
I am Christophero Sly.
Seigneur Martino and his wife and daughters; County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; The lady widow of Vitruvio; Seigneur Placentio and his lovely nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; Mine uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; My fair niece Rosaline and Livia;
 that’s the way he plays his part.
Let that be left Which leaves itself.
Alas the day!
I hear the minstrels play.
To what end?
 the Prince, the Count, Signior Benedick, Don John, and all the gentlemen of the town have come to bring you to church.
I charge you, as you hope to have redemption, By Christ’s dear blood shed for our grievous sins, That you depart, and lay no hands on me.
They have dispatched with Pompey; he is gone.
This way will I. Disrobe the images If you do find them decked with ceremonies.
God give us leisure for these rites of love!
And if thy poor devoted servant may But beg one favor at thy gracious hand, Thou dost confirm his happiness forever.
The cords That Romeo bid thee fetch?
God bless thee, and put meekness in thy breast, Love, charity, obedience, and true duty.
Cunning.
I have no way, and therefore want no eyes.
Ay me!
Come.
To the health of our general!
I bring no overture of war, no taxation of homage.
I would it might prove the end of his losses.
Ay, thou poor ghost, whiles memory holds a seat In this distracted globe.
Would that fault were mine!
Let us be jocund.
Caesar, thou art revenged, Even with the sword that killed thee.
As mine eyes opened, I saw their weapons drawn.
For the love of God, a surgeon!
sits.—I did never think that lady would have loved any man.
How is it, general?
He hath not told his thought to the king?
That will never be.
Oh!
As strange as the thing I know not.
What, Octavia?
Ay, husband.
But this rough magic I here abjure, and when I have required Some heavenly music, which even now I do, To work mine end upon their senses that This airy charm is for, I’ll break my staff, Bury it certain fathoms in the earth, And deeper than did ever plummet sound I’ll drown my book.
Do not you chide.
Heaven preserve you!
That young swain that you saw here but erewhile, That little cares for buying anything.
Thou canst not choose but know who I am.
What I can do I will, and more I will Than for myself I dare.
Thanks to your majesty.
Good cheer, Antonio!
I stand on sudden haste.
Brutus” will start a spirit as soon as “Caesar.” Now in the names of all the gods at once, Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed That he is grown so great?
Indeed, I never shall be satisfied With Romeo, till I behold him—dead— Is my poor heart for a kinsman vexed.
Informed them”?
No watch?
If he say so, may his pernicious soul Rot half a grain a day!
Good sir, to the purpose.
Oh, it is monstrous, monstrous.
News, madam.
Your loss is as yourself, great, and you bear it As answering to the weight.
I see these witches are afraid of swords.
I could find in my heart to beat him—   But that the poor monster’s in drink.
I warrant thee.
Use your authority.
There’s hope in ’t yet.
Here’s Cassio hurt by villains.
But now the duke of Buckingham and I Are come from visiting his majesty.
He, upon some action, Is now in durance at Malvolio’s suit, A gentleman and follower of my lady’s.
Welcome, then, Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
O day untowardly turned!
Silence awhile.—Robin, take off this head.— Titania, music call, and strike more dead Than common sleep of all these five the sense.
The first interr'gatory That my Nerissa shall be sworn on is Whether till the next night she had rather stay, Or go to bed now, being two hours to day.
Who are the late commissioners?
Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily.
Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts.
Draw the curtain straight.
I sent for thee upon a sad occasion.
Call him hither, good Monsieur Le Beau.
None but the fool, who labors to outjest His heart-struck injuries.
Nay, he will answer the letter’s master, how he dares, being dared.
A spirit?
I say amen to her.
Why, there then!
Therefore, hear me, Hermia.
Do you not hear me speak?
Caesar, I never stood on ceremonies, Yet now they fright me.
For youth is bought more oft than begged or borrow’d.
And here he stands.
Twill bring you gain or perish on the seas.
O my lord!
Why, this is not Lear.
When I desire their leave that I might pity him, they took from me the use of mine own house, charged me on pain of their perpetual displeasure neither to speak of him, entreat for him, nor any way sustain him.
Then brook abridgment, and your eyes advance After your thoughts, straight back again to France.
Are you crept hither to see the wrestling?
Then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar, And let me show you him that made the will.
Here comes one o' the parings.
The queen, my lord, is dead.
Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
He does smile his face into more lines than is in the new map with the augmentation of the Indies.
Mark Antony— Pardon me, Caius Cassius.
Some wine, ho!              
Whither am I going?
Hold then my sword and turn away thy face While I do run upon it.
Would it not make one weep?
Think so, Iago?
My strange and self-abuse Is the initiate fear that wants hard use.
A spirit, a spirit.
Touch me not so near.
And then, sir, does he this, he does— What was I about to say?
You are welcome.
You know he does.
Dost thou lie still?
Marry, peace it bodes, and love, and quiet life, And awful rule, and right supremacy, And, to be short, what not that’s sweet and happy?
Why then, the devil give him good of it!
I would not change this hue Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen.
Give me leave To speak my mind, and I will through and through Cleanse the foul body of th' infected world, If they will patiently receive my medicine.
You tell us the manner of the wrestling.
I dare draw as soon as another man if I see occasion in a good quarrel and the law on my side.
Methinks you are too much of late i' th' frown.
Go then and muster men, but leave behind Your son George Stanley.
Therefore, out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint you withal, that either you might stay him from his intendment or brook such disgrace well as he shall run into, in that it is a thing of his own search and altogether against my will.
No.
I am aweary.
Now Jove, in his next commodity of hair, send thee a beard!
If it be found so, some will dear abide it.
Oh, If you but knew how you the purpose cherish Whiles thus you mock it!
But I, who never knew how to entreat, Nor never needed that I should entreat, Am starved for meat, giddy for lack of sleep, With oaths kept waking and with brawling fed.
Know the glove!
Spirit, We must prepare to meet with Caliban.
Servant-monster”?
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
Prithee, do not turn me about.
Hast thou no care of me?
You do extend These thoughts of horror further than you shall Find cause in Caesar.
Talk not to me.
O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou didst know how many fathom deep I am in love.
How do you mean, removing of him?
In weightier things you’ll say a beggar nay.
Besides, their writers say, King Pepin, which deposèd Childeric, Did, as heir general, being descended Of Blithild, which was daughter to King Clothair, Make claim and title to the crown of France.
He’s as tall a man as any ’s in Illyria.
How does thy honor?
How much unlike art thou Mark Antony!
I prithee, pretty York, who told thee this?
He hath the falling sickness.
Ay, madam.
There, drink that for me.
Here’s the place.
Francis Flute, the bellows-mender?
 he and Cleopatra sat on chairs of gold on a silver-covered stage in the marketplace.
Why, what did I?
What, for a counter, would I do but good?
You, constable, are to present the Prince’s own person.
Why, now I see there’s mettle in thee, and even from this instant to build on thee a better opinion than ever before.
It shall go hard if “Cambio” go without her.
Lives he, good uncle?
The duke my father loved his father dearly.
The round world Should have shook lions into civil streets And citizens to their dens.
The sight is dismal, And our affairs from England come too late.
Then your hose should be ungartered, your bonnet unbanded, your sleeve unbuttoned, your shoe untied, and everything about you demonstrating a careless desolation.
Mark well Metellus Cimber.
Now near enough.
Come, sir, I will not let you go.
We will hear Caesar’s will.
Your Grace is too costly to wear every day.
You hear the suit.
Words before blows.
They smile at me that shortly shall be dead.
Is there any man has rebused your Worship?
The sound is going away.
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
Where be thy tenants and thy followers?
Behold where stands The usurper’s cursèd head.
And when I told thee he was of my counsel Of my whole course of wooing, thou cried’st “Indeed?” And didst contract and purse thy brow together As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain Some horrible conceit.
Howl, howl, howl, howl!
Give me a calendar.
Very good!
Good night.
I should know that voice.
I have not seen him this two days.
Two deep enemies, Foes to my rest, and my sweet sleep’s disturbers, Are they that I would have thee deal upon.
Oh!
What wood is this before us?
That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
And is it physical To walk unbracèd and suck up the humors Of the dank morning?
Iago is most honest.
Regan, I have good hope Thou didst not know on ’t.—Who comes here?
I have full cause of weeping, but this heart Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws, Or ere I’ll weep.—O Fool, I shall go mad!
Dismiss me.
She loved me for the dangers I had passed, And I loved her that she did pity them.
Both with an  Ah, mocker, that’s the dog’s name.
So haply are they friends to Antony.
Call Burgundy.—    Cornwall and Albany, With my two daughters' dowers digest this third.
And let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisbe whisper.
I forget, But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labors, Most busiest when I do it.
Let him not come near me.
Come, let’s away. 
More knocking.
To fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing?
What now, Lucillius?
Good my lord, enter here.
Wake Duncan with thy knocking.
Now, Catesby, what says his grace?
Faith, sir, so-so.
Yea, marry, that’s the eftest way.—Let the watch come forth.
Nay, but who is it?
Which is the lady I must seize upon?
While that the armèd hand doth fight abroad, Th' advisèd head defends itself at home.
What sayest thou, Biondello?
Write from us to him.
The gown is made Just as my master had direction.
Hold!
Let me shun that.
Never come such division ’tween our souls.
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
What think you of this fool, Malvolio?
That’s sides and heart.
But for the stuffing—well, we are all mortal.
My lord, his majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on your head.
In such a night To shut me out!
You are too hot.
Go with me to it, and I’ll show it you; and by the way you shall tell me where in the forest you live.
This was sometime a paradox, but now the time gives it proof.
What, no more ceremony?
Adieu, Till your return at night.
When I know the gentleman, I’ll tell him what you say.
I shall attend you presently at your tent.
Of her society Be not afraid.
One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons!
Ay.—Fare you well, fair gentleman.
God help the noble Claudio!
Don Pedro is approached.
It will be rain tonight.
What were I best to say?
But I’ll catch thine eyes, Though they had wings.
Marry, well remembered.
My masters, are you mad?
I’ll signify so much unto him straight.
Foolish curs, that run winking into the mouth of a Russian bear and have their heads crushed like rotten apples.
I do.
Your ear is good.
Signior Lodovico?
Now, banished Kent, If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemned, So may it come thy master, whom thou lovest, Shall find thee full of labors.
If not, when you have stomachs.
Thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man.
Scape being drunk for want of wine.
Poor living corse, closed in a dead man’s tomb!
Good.
Thou torturest me, Tubal.
Farewell.
Certain, men should be what they seem.
Demand me nothing.
Where wilt thou lead me?
He was wont to call me usurer; let him look to his bond.
An they be not, let them hang themselves in their own straps.
These are gracious drops.
Did you say with Cassio?
You have stayed me in a happy hour.
He hath assembled Bocchus, the King of Libya; Archelaus, Of Cappadocia; Philadelphos, King Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas; King Manchus of Arabia; King of Pont; Herod of Jewry; Mithridates, King Of Comagen; Polemon and Amyntas, The Kings of Mede and Lycaonia, With a more larger list of scepters.
He kills her in her own humor.
My brother Gloucester’s voice.—Ay, I know thy errand.
Yes, as sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
Your lady, sir, your lady.
No wonder, my lord.
Here comes the Prince and Claudio hastily.
Hush!
Well, good night.
Why will My lord do so?
Repent that e’er thy tongue Hath so betrayed thine act.
Shall Caesar send a lie?
If it pass against us, We lose the better half of our possession, For all the temporal lands which men devout By testament have given to the Church Would they strip from us, being valued thus
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life Extorted treasure in the womb of earth, For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death, Speak of it.
Let’s tonight Be bounteous at our meal.
Pray God, he keep his oath!
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee tonight.
Why the devil came you between us?
I am sorry For your displeasure, but all will sure be well.
The duke of York commends him to your Majesty.
I shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Cobweb.
This day, great duke, she shut the doors upon me While she with harlots feasted in my house.
Fathers commonly Do get their children.
No.
What watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and night?
You wronged yourself to write in such a case.
None in the world, nor do I know the man.
Therefore  You will not pay for the glasses you have burst?
Rather a ditch in Egypt Be gentle grave unto me.
Let me question more in particular.
Some bloody passion shakes your very frame.
This naughty man Shall face to face be brought to Margaret, Who I believe was packed in all this wrong, Hired to it by your brother.
Hath she forsook so many noble matches, Her father and her country, and her friends, To be called “whore”?
What players are they?
Therefore play, music.—Prince, thou art sad.
No.
Most gracious Duke, To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear And let me find a charter in your voice, T' assist my simpleness.
I’ll write to him a very taunting letter, And thou shalt bear it.
Know’st thou this country?
No, you shall paint when you are old.
My Queen and Eros Have by their brave instruction got upon me A nobleness in record.
Yet words do well When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
Those that “Hobgoblin” call you, and “sweet Puck,” You do their work, and they shall have good luck.
Who’s within?
I hope he is much grown since last I saw him.
Alack, sir, he is mad.
My lord, I hold my life as dear as you do yours, And never in my days, I do protest, Was it so precious to me as ’tis now.
Hath not a Jew eyes?
Drown thyself?
Give me thy hand.
Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies.
I will deny thee nothing!
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
Iago.
No cause, no cause.
 find your brother, wherever he is.
I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be buried in thy eyes—and moreover, I will go with thee to thy uncle’s.
No, sir, God forbid, but ashamed to kiss.
For Brutus' sake, I am beholding to you.  
If he be perjured, see you now, his reputation is as arrant a villain and a Jack Sauce as ever his black shoe trod upon God’s ground and His earth, in my conscience, la.
The thought whereof Doth, like a poisonous mineral, gnaw my inwards, And nothing can or shall content my soul Till I am evened with him, wife for wife.
Nay, that he did not.
It is a theme as fluent as the sea.
Do not deny.
You were best to tell Antonio what you hear— Yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him.
His dishonesty appears in leaving his friend here in necessity and denying him.
Nor send you out o' th' way?
And, as thou badest me, In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle.
Here comes a messenger.
But hear thee, Gratiano.
But do not go with it.
They cannot budge till your release.
You are a saucy boy.
This same should be the voice of Friar John.
Enobarbus, welcome.
I think she’ll sooner prove a soldier.
I am no fighter.
O heavenly mingle!
Let us hear him.
Hath he provided this music?
So were you.
Therefore they thought it good you hear a play And frame your mind to mirth and merriment, Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
To take ’t again perforce— Monster ingratitude!
What hast thou to do?— Father, be quiet.
And am I then revenged
And what to?
Couple it with something.
I would fain prove so.
I warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing.
Madam, madam— Antonio’s dead!
His indignation derives itself out of a very competent injury.
The law hath yet another hold on you.
Now the witch take me if I meant it thus!
The crows and choughs that wing the midway air Show scarce so gross as beetles.
Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
Soft!
I will laugh like a hyena, and that when thou art inclined to sleep.
Henry the Sixth, in infant bands crowned king Of France and England, did this king succeed, Whose state so many had the managing That they lost France and made his England bleed, Which oft our stage hath shown.
What, have you dined at home?
The next thing then she waking looks upon— Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull, On meddling monkey or on busy ape— She shall pursue it with the soul of love.
So shalt thou show me friendship.
Some are born great—”
I am not drunk now.
If fortune be not ours today, it is Because we brave her.
He goes forth gallantly.
What might import my sister’s letter to him?
Thou dost conspire against thy friend, Iago, If thou but think’st him wronged and mak’st his ear A stranger to thy thoughts.
If you would not, it were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father.
Tis very like.
Before and apace.
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool no where but in ’s own house.
Come, warble, come.
Master, you looked so longly on the maid, Perhaps you marked not what’s the pith of all.
Be attentive.
Thus hath the course of justice whirled about And left thee but a very prey to time, Having no more but thought of what thou wast To torture thee the more, being what thou art.
Why dost thou lash that whore?
A brave vessel Who had, no doubt, some noble creature in her Dashed all to pieces.
Why dost thou lead these men about the streets?
Trouble us not.
Friends, begone.
O most unhappy strumpet!
He’s coming, madam; but in very strange manner.
Some men there are love not a gaping pig, Some that are mad if they behold a cat, And others, when the bagpipe sings i' th' nose, Cannot contain their urine.
No, It is thyself, mine own self’s better part, Mine eye’s clear eye, my dear heart’s dearer heart, My food, my fortune, and my sweet hope’s aim, My sole earth’s heaven, and my heaven’s claim.
For our losses, his exchequer is too poor; for th' effusion of our blood, the muster of his kingdom too faint a number; and for our disgrace, his own person, kneeling at our feet but a weak and worthless satisfaction.
Part them!
Octavius, lead your battle softly on, Upon the left hand of the even field.
Wherefore this ghastly looking?
Alack the day!
Thou baggage, let me in.
What in the contrary?
Ay, with Cassio.
They follow the king’s pleasure.
What manner o’ thing is your crocodile?
I will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on.
What, dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel, And soothe the devil that I warn thee from?
But, alas the while!
This may prove food to my displeasure.
So swift a pace hath thought that even now You may imagine him upon Blackheath, Where that his lords desire him to have borne His bruisèd helmet and his bended sword Before him through the city.
Antonio, I am married to a wife Which is as dear to me as life itself.
I must be gone.
A hornèd man’s a monster and a beast.
I pray you, sir, take patience.
I, not remembering how I cried out then, Will cry it o'er again.
Twere damnation To think so base a thought.
And I have heard Apollodorus carried—                                                                               What, I pray you?
Well, do it, and be brief.
is your merry humor altered?
And as our vineyards, fallows, meads, and hedges, Defective in their natures, grow to wildness, Even so our houses and ourselves and children Have lost, or do not learn for want of time, The sciences that should become our country, But grow like savages, as soldiers will
I will give treason his payment into plows, I warrant you.
He that shall see this day, and live old age, Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors And say, “Tomorrow is Saint Crispian.” Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars, And say, “These wounds I had on Crispin’s day.”
Never, my lord.
Go fetch it, sister.
And so swear I.
Bloody, bawdy villain!
It were an honest action to say So to the Moor.
For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl.
What, keep a week away?
Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand For lifting food to ’t?
It is a beast for Perseus.
Oh yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face Such as the daughter of Agenor had, That made great Jove to humble him to her hand When with his knees he kissed the Cretan strand.
I have great comfort from this fellow.
Have you any further trade with us?
What’s this?
We’ll mend our dinner here.
Thy mistress' marks?
Will you go hunt, my lord?
I would be friends with you and have your love, Forget the shames that you have stained me with, Supply your present wants and take no doit Of usance for my moneys—and you’ll not hear me!
What a blunt fellow is this grown to be!
 I can’t play a single note that’s worthy of note.
I will withdraw To furnish me with some swift means of death For the fair devil.
But if thy love were ever like to mine— As sure I think did never man love so— How many actions most ridiculous Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?
That skull had a tongue in it and could sing once.
I think he only loves the world for him.
If that the Turkish fleet Be not ensheltered and embayed, they are drowned.
In happy time, Iago.
Marry, well said, very well said.
Call the slave again.
The King will be gone from Southampton.
Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace, Yet grace must still look so.
Of very ill manner.
What needs this iterance, woman?
Turn thy complexion there, Patience, thou young and rose-lipped cherubin,— Ay, there, look grim as hell!
Twas on a summer’s evening in his tent, That day he overcame the Nervii.
I know his eye doth homage otherwhere, Or else what lets it but he would be here?
Why prat’st thou to thyself and answer’st not?
Cross him in nothing.
Burn but his books.
He that keeps nor crust nor crumb,  Weary of all, shall want some.
Is ’t possible?
Arise, arise, Awake the snorting citizens with the bell Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you.
Why, I said nothing.
Your children were vexation to your youth, But mine shall be a comfort to your age.
 where’s the money?
Go get it ready.
We’ll not run, Monsieur Monster.
I’ll stay a month longer.
Away!
If you cannot, give thanks you have lived so long and make yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of the hour, if it so hap.—Cheerly, good hearts!—Out of our way, I say.
But she is none.
 they work together to create such an entirely evil person that no good ever manages to enter the mix.
Perdition catch my soul But I do love thee!
The date is out of such prolixity.
Fulvia is dead.
Madman and beggar too.
Music, moody food Of us that trade in love.
Well, sit we down, And let us hear Barnardo speak of this.
I know our country disposition well.
Come, come with me, and we will make short work.
But the rarity of it is—which is indeed almost beyond credit—  As many vouched rarities are.
Yearly will I do this rite.
All eyes!
The king’s a bawcock, and a heart of gold, A lad of life, an imp of fame, Of parents good, of fist most valiant.
Safe in a ditch he bides, With twenty trenchèd gashes on his head, The least a death to nature.
My father Is hard at study.
I had as lief thou didst break his neck as his finger.
As I did sleep under this yew tree here, I dreamt my master and another fought, And that my master slew him.
Where is this sight?
Make me not offended In your distrust.
Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.
But I pray you, who is his companion?
I have brought you from Venice.
There’s no clock in the forest.
Give order to my servants that they take No note at all of our being absent hence.— Nor you, Lorenzo.—Jessica, nor you.
When is the royal day?
Under Sir Thomas Erpingham.
Though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus, yet nature finds itself scourged by the sequent effects.
Ay, ay.
What, of death too, That rids our dogs of languish?
I pray you, fail me not.
Then slip I from her bum, down topples she, And “Tailor!” cries, and falls into a cough, And then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh, And waxen in their mirth, and neeze, and swear A merrier hour was never wasted there.
She will be pleased.
I had a son, Now outlawed from my blood.
They have not been commanded, mighty king.
If one knight give a— Would you have a love song or a song of good life?
I have promised to make all this matter even.
Deny me this, And an eternal curse fall on you!
As if time were in debt.
Not so, neither.
Go, take it up unto thy master’s use.
My necessaries are embarked.
By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
How lost you company?
We would have all such offenders so cut off, and we give express charge that in our marches through the country there be nothing compelled from the villages, nothing taken but paid for, none of the French upbraided or abused in disdainful language; for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom, the gentler gamester is the soonest winner.
What do you see?
Look, here comes the duke.
Come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature, if it be well used.
By your patience, I may not suffer you to visit them.
Hear you, my lords—     We have some haste, Leonato.
If thou rememberest aught ere thou camest here, How thou camest here thou mayst.
Would thou’dst be ruled by me!
My dearest coz, I pray you school yourself.
Good morrow, brother Bedford.
Not to be endured.
Yet you began rudely.
Say I am sick.
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to you, trippingly on the tongue.
Is it two days ago since I tripped up thy heels and beat thee before the king?
Freedom!
I know this is a joyful trouble to you, But yet ’tis one.
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import Some misadventure.
Let us all embrace.
Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand, help me to a candle, and pen, ink, and paper.
There could I have him now—and there—and there again—and there.
Good morrow, sweet Hero.
My services to your lordship.
Where is that damnèd villain, Tranio, That faced and braved me in this matter so?
How now?
O piteous spectacle!
Tomorrow, if you please to speak with me, I will come home to you.
As thou got’st Milan, I’ll come by Naples.
Fellows, let’s be gone.
And that were much he should, for he is given To sports, to wildness and much company.
It is not moonlight now.
The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman, Thy son by this hath married.
The age is grown so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls his kibe.—How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
Who’s there?
Go, my dread lord, to your great-grandsire’s tomb, From whom you claim.
I’ll tear her all to pieces!
What is my name?
Would you had never seen him!
Is thy master stirring?
What’s your will?
Gold, silver, and base lead.
This is more strange Than such a murder is.
Service.
Mark his condition and the event.
Affection is not rated from the heart.
I could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment.
I mean, the Lord Protector.
One doth not know How much an ill word may empoison liking.
O Scotland, Scotland!
Tis very true.
Come, come, no longer will I be a fool, To put the finger in the eye and weep Whilst man and master laugh my woes to scorn.
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland.
A sovereign shame so elbows him.
So the maid that stood in the way for my wish shall show me the way to my will.
Stand, ho!
O perjured woman, thou dost stone my heart, And mak’st me call what I intend to do A murder, which I thought a sacrifice!
I’ll catch it ere it come to ground.
Good my lord, bid him welcome.
Mend your speech a little, Lest you may mar your fortunes.
But it is no matter.
I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on the windy side of care.
I know it is the moon.
I would thou hadst told me of another father.
Well this was Signor Benedick that said so.
So young and so untender?
Knock, knock, knock!
In his own grace he doth exalt himself More than in your addition.
Sport?
Fare thee well at once.
See what a rent the envious Casca made.
The transgression is in the stealer.
I did not.
In saying so, you shall but say the truth.
Farewell.
My life is run his compass.
Will you lead, lords?
Art thou learned?
Do you intend it?
You.
But I might see young Cupid’s fiery shaft Quenched in the chaste beams of the watery moon, And the imperial votaress passèd on, In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
Would you were not sick!
I drink to thee.
God almighty, There is some soul of goodness in things evil, Would men observingly distill it out.
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Why, “some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrown upon them.” I was one, sir, in this interlude, one Sir Topas, sir, but that’s all one.
We are such stuff As dreams are made on, and our little life Is rounded with a sleep.
Tis good we do so.
Will you go, sister?—Shepherd, ply her hard.
I can read.
Your hands, come then.
Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters. 
Soldier, thou art; but his whole action grows Not in the power on ’t.
From all such devils, good Lord, deliver us!
The earth sings when he touches it.
He brings me liberty.
I had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad— and to travel for it, too.
Then shall I bleed to death.
And welcome, welcome!
The taming school?
Here comes newer comfort.
As a friend or an enemy?
If she be a traitor, Why so am I.
Friends to this ground.
Is it they?
By my troth, sir, no—though it please you to be one of my friends.
Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.   Graybeard, thy love doth freeze.
Give me leave.— I am a gentleman of Verona, sir, That hearing of her beauty and her wit, Her affability and bashful modesty, Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior, Am bold to show myself a forward guest Within your house, to make mine eye the witness Of that report which I so oft have heard.
But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee, Life would not yield to age.
This ’greed upon To part with unhacked edges and bear back Our targes undinted.
Will she go now to bed?
You will be whipped.
Oh, that my prayers could such affection move!
I am but hurt.
These gloves the Count sent me, they are an excellent perfume.
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries That thou hast done me.
O cousin, cousin!
Dost thou not suspect my place?
By the pricking of my thumbs, Something wicked this way comes.
You are a fool.
Ay, but, lady, That policy may either last so long, Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet, Or breed itself so out of circumstances, That, I being absent and my place supplied, My general will forget my love and service.
You shall have gold To pay the petty debt twenty times over.
What is ’t?
I’ll be sworn, if thou be Launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood.
Some dear friend dead, else nothing in the world Could turn so much the constitution Of any constant man.
And they are gone.
How now?
But you shall find the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their amity.
How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags?
But if you be remembered, I did not bid you mar it to the time.
In faith, she’s too curst.
I must be idle.
O bear me witness, night— What man is this?
Call it my fear That keeps you in the house, and not your own.
And let us do it with no show of fear, No, with no more than if we heard that England Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance.
Let me come to her.
Ambition should be made of sterner stuff.
How then, sick?
Hold, take my sword.
He goes before me and still dares me on.
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding, And from some knowledge and assurance offer This office to you.
What call you the carriages?
You do assist the storm.
Where should Othello go?— Now, how dost thou look now?
What, thou speak’st drowsily?
Tis a brave army, and full of purpose.
Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir.
Happily he’s the second time come to them, for they say an old man is twice a child.
Was not this love indeed?
Most kind messenger, Say to great Caesar this in deputation
He doth entreat your Grace, my noble lord, To visit him tomorrow or next day.
Oh, he has given example for our flight Most grossly by his own!
Boy!
I think we are too bold upon your rest.
James Tyrrel, and your most obedient subject.
Is ’t possible?
Speak, man.
I never can see him but I am heartburned an hour after.
Room, ho!
I think I had.
Ay, my lord.
Yea, yea, my lord.
He is now as valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie and swears it.
And, good night, sweet friend.
Good morrow, worthy Caesar.
I will not desire that.
And they have conspired together.
God hold it, to your Honor’s good content!
Juno and Ceres whisper seriously.
If they’ll do neither, we will come to them And make them skirr away as swift as stones Enforcèd from the old Assyrian slings.
I’ll find out your man, And he shall signify from time to time Every good hap to you that chances here.
Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more rawer breath?
How shall we then behold their natural tears?
There are no tongues else for ’s turn.
O love!
He said mine eyes were black and my hair black And, now I am remembered, scorned at me.
Go to, farewell.
A dear happiness to women.
He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
It is not honesty in me to speak What I have seen and known.
This jack of Caesar’s shall Bear us an errand to him.
I will plant you two, and let the fool make a third, where he shall find the letter.
Get him to say his prayers, good Sir Toby, get him to pray.
Did I not bid thee meet me in the park And bring along these rascal knaves with thee?
And then?
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
Now, good my lord, lie here and rest awhile.
Bring him before us.
Fulvia?
How now, what news?
God keep me so.—Our heralds go with him.
Some officers take them away.
Have more than thou showest, Speak less than thou knowest, Lend less than thou owest, Ride more than thou goest, Learn more than thou trowest, Set less than thou throwest, Leave thy drink and thy whore And keep in-a-door, And thou shalt have more Than two tens to a score.
There is none of my uncle’s marks upon you.
Kind and dear princess!
All thy other titles thou hast given away that thou wast born with.
Hamlet, thou art slain.
Even so.
Let her not walk i' th' sun.
What from the cape can you discern at sea?
Alas, sir, be patient.
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.
By heaven, I will acquaint his majesty With those gross taunts that oft I have endured.
Shut up your doors.
Let me not name it to you, you chaste stars, It is the cause.
My most dear Gloucester!
Brutus speaks.
Who heard me to deny it or forswear it?
O most bloody sight!
No words.
Her vestal livery is but sick and green, And none but fools do wear it.
Oh, look!
Upon mine honor, sir, I heard a humming, And that a strange one too, which did awake me.
For he loves to hear That unicorns may be betrayed with trees, And bears with glasses, elephants with holes, Lions with toils, and men with flatterers.
My brother never Did urge me in his act.
Lorenzo, and thy love.
Why, so didst thou.
Feel you your legs?
I will do ’t, my lord.
There is none but he Whose being I do fear, and under him My genius is rebuked, as it is said Mark Antony’s was by Caesar.
They are all welcome.
Very well.
Or o' mine either?
 “If you want to win France, start with Scotland.” For when the eagle England leaves her nest to seek prey, the weasel Scot always comes sneaking around to suck dry her princely eggs and, like the mouse when the cat’s away, destroy more than she can actually eat.
Now counterfeit to swoon, why, now fall down; Or if thou canst not, Oh, for shame, for shame, Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers.
I shall grow jealous of you shortly, Launcelot, if you thus get my wife into corners.
Between who?
Go, write it in a martial hand.
I love her ten times more than e'er I did.
Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner?
Ha!
So.   
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice And could of men distinguish, her election Hath sealed thee for herself, for thou hast been— As one in suffering all that suffers nothing— A man that Fortune’s buffets and rewards Hast ta'en with equal thanks.
Hark, hark!
Why, stay and hear me speak.
His daughters seek his death.
This is Trebonius.
My father—methinks I see my father.
Let’s stab ourselves.
This is the air, that is the glorious sun.
For the best turn i’ th’ bed.
There lies the duke asleep, and there the keys.
If Signor Leonato be her father, she would not have his head on her shoulders for all Messina, as like him as she is.
I would to God all strifes were well compounded.
For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so.
That were a kind of bastard hope indeed.
And what noise is this?
You must awhile be patient.
Come forth.
I pray you, give me leave to go from hence.
A simple countryman that brought her figs.
Tis like the howling of Irish wolves against the moon.
O conspiracy, Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night When evils are most free?
I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
What say you?
My lord?
My lord?
For that you must But say I could not help it.
How goes it now?
Farewell.
Ha!
Caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands Unless thou bring’st them with thee.
She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of that.
If not, ’tis true this parting was well made.
Nay, you must call me Rosalind.—Come, sister, will you go? 
Come on and kiss me, Kate.
Roundly replied.
I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of Rosalind, I am that he, that unfortunate he.
Mark Antony I served, who best was worthy Best to be served.
It makes us, or it mars us.
Tis well you offer it behind her back.
Can he that deny?
It is the prince of palfreys.
Those that have known the earth so full of faults.
They’ll be in scarlet straight at any news.
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper?
Come, tailor, let us see these ornaments.
How durst you, villains, bring it from the dresser And serve it thus to me that love it not?
The king hath heard them, to the which as yet There is no answer made.
Truly, the more to blame he.
Ay.
And can you by no drift of conference Get from him why he puts on this confusion, Grating so harshly all his days of quiet With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
He is the brooch indeed And gem of all the nation.
Didst perceive?
Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age.
There is but one hope in it that can do you any good, and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither.
Knock, I say.
Now, Balthazar, As I have ever found thee honest true, So let me find thee still.
Therein our letters do not well agree.
I mean, sir, for his weapon.
Do then, but I’ll not hear.
But yet I run before my horse to market.
If he could right himself with quarreling, Some of us would lie low.
Ay, madam, it is common.
Ready.
He hath an argosy bound to Tripolis, another to the Indies.
Her father’s brother Would be her lord?
Fare you well at once.
Complain unto the Duke of this indignity.
How do you, Malvolio?
Out of my sight!— Be not offended, dear Cesario.— Rudesby, be gone!
Out, fool.
I give it you.
Here’s such a coil.
What if this mixture do not work at all?
Be comforted, dear madam.
Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand.
Be of good cheer.
What serious contemplation are you in?
Advantage is a better soldier than rashness.
And then give them great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will eat like wolves and fight like devils.
Peace, ho!
Sailors, my lord, they say.
Thyself art coming To see performed the dreaded act which thou So sought’st to hinder.
Who, queasy with his insolence already, Will their good thoughts call from him. 
Say that they slack their duties
My visor is Philemon’s roof; within the house is Jove.
What gentleman?
Tell him we could have rebuked him at Harfleur, but that we thought not good to bruise an injury till it were full ripe.
He’s safe for these three hours.
Cambio is changed into Lucentio.
Well, say, sir.
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
I am not for this ambling.
Confusion’s cure lives not In these confusions.
I will die bravely, like a smug bridegroom.
I did so, and take heed on ’t, Make it a darling like your precious eye.
And nothing is at a like goodness still.
Alive in triumph—and Mercutio slain!
I cannot speak your England.
Through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind.
My lord is dead.
Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I’ll have a suit of sables.
Let us swear That you are worth your breeding, which I doubt not,
Indeed, my lord, it is a most absolute and excellent horse.
So dear I loved the man that I must weep.
Therefore use thy discretion.
I humbly thank your ladyship.
But come what sorrow can, It cannot countervail the exchange of joy That one short minute gives me in her sight.
Now will he sit under a medlar tree And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit As maids call medlars when they laugh alone.— O Romeo, that she were!
O traitors, villains!
News have I that my Nell is dead i' th' spital Of a malady of France, And there my rendezvous is quite cut off.
The night has been unruly.
Where hast thou been, sister?
But I pray, can you read anything you see?
mutinies, in countries discord, in palaces treason, and the bond cracked ’twixt son and father.
Both our remedies Within thy help and holy physic lies.
Nay, come, let’s go together.
It were too gross To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.
A good direction, warlike sovereign.
Whither away?
But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love for me?
Did not you tell me I should know the man By the Athenian garment he had on?
I might ask you for your commission, but I do take thee, Orlando, for my husband.
All may be well enough.
Did ever Dian so become a grove As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
I remember him well, and I remember him worthy of thy praise.
Let go, slave, or thou diest!
Thou wilt write to Antony?
Be patient, gentlemen.
I care not for good life.              
Good night.
Ay, my good lord.
Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies.
I will on with my speech in your praise and then show you the heart of my message. 
O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear.
I' faith, i' faith, and both in a tune like two gypsies on a horse.                 
Shall ’t be tonight at supper?
Give me your hand first.  
Doth his Majesty Incline to it or no?
Well too.
And all the better is it for the maid.
Lucentio is your name.
Indeed, it is a strange-disposèd time.
Is she shrill-tongued or low?
If not, adieu.
A greater gift than that I’ll give my cousin.
Nay, if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication, I cannot scratch mine ear.—Prithee, tell her but a workaday fortune.
If thou dost I shall never love thee after.
I leave an arrant knave with your Worship, which I beseech your Worship to correct yourself, for the example of others.
Where’s the Master?
Will ’t please you taste of what is here?
I will not give my part of this sport for a pension of thousands to be paid from the Sophy.
Take each man’s censure but reserve thy judgment.
Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms.
I do not know One of my sex, no woman’s face remember— Save, from my glass, mine own.
Why, then, ’tis none to you, for there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
The clock struck nine when I did send the Nurse.
The red plague rid you For learning me your language!
And so the lion vanished.
Some blessed power deliver us from hence!
If thou say so, withdraw and prove it too.
Say to me whose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar’s or mine?
In himself he is.
First, know my horse is tired, my master and mistress fallen out.
You have of late stood out against your brother, and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace, where it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair weather that you make yourself.
What simple thief brags of his own attaint?
Which is the villain?
Now, most noble Brutus, The gods today stand friendly that we may, Lovers in peace, lead on our days to age.
What counterfeit did I give you?
We have two hours To furnish us.
What kind of help?
Hence, make your best of it.
And after that he came thus sad away?
That courtesy would be uncleanly if courtiers were shepherds.
She returns this ring to you, sir.
I pray you all, If you have hitherto concealed this sight, Let it be tenable in your silence still.
O, in the battle think on Buckingham, And die in terror of thy guiltiness.
To Dover.
For God’s sake, a pot of small ale.
What’s the matter?
Good Enobarbus!
Make we our march towards Birnam.
But is he often thus?
Madman, thou errest.
My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul, And all the world was of my father’s mind.
Let’s lack no discipline, make no delay, For, lords, tomorrow is a busy day.
The honorable lady of the house, which is she?
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
Know him I shall, I am well sure of it.
One, Kate, that you must kiss and be acquainted with.— Where are my slippers?
Twere good you let him know, For who that’s but a queen, fair, sober, wise, Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib, Such dear concernings hide?
He had a thousand noses, Horns whelked and waved like the enragèd sea.
I must leave them and seek some better service.
Who intercepts my expedition?
Repose you there, while I to this hard house— More harder than the stones whereof ’tis raised, Which even but now, demanding after you, Denied me to come in—return, and force Their scanted courtesy.
And, Kate, when France is mine and I am yours, then yours is France and you are mine.
My uncle?
Alack, I love myself.
O, gentlemen, see, see dead Henry’s wounds Open their congealed mouths and bleed afresh!— Blush, blush, thou lump of foul deformity, For ’tis thy presence that exhales this blood From cold and empty veins where no blood dwells.
Art of this house?
I could never better stead thee than now.
See, who comes here?
Away with it!
Th' abuse of greatness is when it disjoins Remorse from power.
For half thy wealth, it is Antonio’s.
Here, Peter Quince.
Cancel his bond of life, dear God I pray, That I may live to say, “The dog is dead.”
Oh, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself.
Pass!
Tomorrow, as he purposes.
Now I will believe That there are unicorns, that in Arabia There is one tree, the phoenix' throne, one phoenix At this hour reigning there.
Music i’ th’ air.
Come hither, you rogue!
Never alone Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Bear with my weakness.
When you shall please to play the thieves for wives, I’ll watch as long for you then.
The duke of Exeter has very gallantly maintained the pridge.
Look to the queen there, ho!
Titinius, if thou lovest me, Mount thou my horse, and hide thy spurs in him Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops And here again, that I may rest assured Whether yond troops are friend or enemy.
Tis the curse of service.
I' faith, I thank him.
If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the Prince’s subjects.
I have locked the letter in my closet.
It is good to grow.
Who comes so fast in silence of the night?
Why, that is nothing.
Ascend her chamber, hence, and comfort her.
A thousand times the worse to want thy light.
Poor Tom hath been scared out of his good wits.
Husband, I’ll dine above with you today, And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks.
Had she been true, If heaven would make me such another world Of one entire and perfect chrysolite, I’d not have sold her for it.
Monster, come, put some lime upon your fingers, and away with the rest.
We have beat him to his camp.
If I could win a lady at leapfrog or by vaulting into my saddle with my armor on my back, under the correction of bragging be it spoken, I should quickly leap into a wife.
He did not call, he’s busy in the paper.
Assuredly the thing is to be sold.
Thrice hath Calphurnia in her sleep cried out, “Help, ho!
Good madonna, why mournest thou?
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
I thank you, sir.
Marry, heaven forbid!
Here you may roast your goose.
Pray you, sir, stand up.
Not?
No warmth, no breath shall testify thou livest.
But were I not the better part made mercy, I should not seek an absent argument Of my revenge, thou present.
Well, sir, learn to jest in good time.
True!
I pray you, rise.
Who would not have his wife so?
Most detestable Death, by thee beguiled, By cruel, cruel thee quite overthrown!
My daughter he hath wedded.
Nearest his heart”—those are the very words.
But my uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
Not stingless too?
Come, the recorders!
Sister, you know he promised me a chain.
Well met, Corporal Nym.
I will be strange, stout, in yellow stockings, and cross-gartered, even with the swiftness of putting on.
Ay, marry, am I, sir; and now ’tis plotted!
But I’ll go in.
What complexion is she of?
Change you color?
Amen, amen.
Fool, I’ll requite it in the highest degree.
Here, my lord.
Yet they are not joined.
The king shall drink to Hamlet’s better breath, And in the cup an union shall he throw Richer than that which four successive kings In Denmark’s crown have worn.
Buzz, buzz.
Tempt him not so too far.
Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown.
Romeo!— Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains The stony entrance of the sepulcher?
Their bloody sign of battle is hung out, And something to be done immediately.
Is it your own inclining?
The advancement of your children, gentle lady.
Come, your answer in broken music, for thy voice is music and thy English broken.
If you deny it, let the danger light Upon your charter and your city’s freedom.
You shall do small respect, show too bold malice Against the grace and person of my master, Stocking his messenger.
Away with us to Athens.
The Lord Grandpré.
I have been dear to him, lad, some two thousand strong, or so.
No, madam.
O, now I need the priest that spake to me!
God and our innocence defend and guard us!
Here let them lie Till famine and the ague eat them up.
He said once the devil would have him about women.
And yet I would not be thee, nuncle.
I wish you all joy of the worm.
Not this, but troubles of the marriage bed.
It cannot be but thou hast murdered him.
Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child.
That “fair” again unsay.
O heavens, that such companions thou’dst unfold, And put in every honest hand a whip To lash the rascals naked through the world Even from the east to th' west!
Therefore, you clown, abandon—which is, in the vulgar, “leave”—the society—which in the boorish is “company”—of this female—which in the common is “woman”; which together is, abandon the society of this female, or, clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better understanding, diest; or, to wit, I kill thee, make thee away, translate thy life into death, thy liberty into bondage.
Come hither, Proculeius.
This way, my lord.
What, did he marry me to famish me?
Do not swear at all.
He was not sad, for he would shine on those That make their looks by his.
Farewell, my coz.
The cowslips tall her pensioners be.
Come hither, captain.
Then take him up and manage well the jest.
Le chien est retourné à son propre vomissement, et la truie lavée au bourbier.” Thou mak’st use of anything.
Oh, ay, Curtis, ay, and therefore fire, fire.
And this our life, exempt from public haunt, Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, Sermons in stones, and good in everything.
Alexander, God knows and you know, in his rages and his furies and his wraths and his cholers and his moods and his displeasures and his indignations, and also being a little intoxicates in his prains, did, in his ales and his angers, look you, kill his best friend, Cleitus.
Now, Roderigo, Where didst thou see her?—Oh, unhappy girl!— With the Moor, say’st thou?—Who would be a father?— How didst thou know ’twas she?—Oh, she deceives me Past thought!—What said she to you?—Get more tapers, Raise all my kindred.
Who alone suffers, suffers most i' th' mind, Leaving free things and happy shows behind.
Behold, sir.
Brutus, my country’s friend.
I think He told me Paris should have married Juliet.
If any be Trinculo’s legs, these are they. 
So farewell to you both.
My worthy Cawdor!
I shall not look upon his like again.
Do the boys carry it away?
I take no pleasure In aught an eunuch has.
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man.
Wilt thou provoke me?
We doubt not of a fair and lucky war, Since God so graciously hath brought to light This dangerous treason lurking in our way To hinder our beginnings.
And, as I am an honest Puck,  If we have unearnèd luck  Now to ’scape the serpent’s tongue,  We will make amends ere long.
Tis well for thee That, being unseminared, thy freer thoughts May not fly forth of Egypt.
Why, bride!
They are not near my conscience.
Then put up your pipes in your bag, for I’ll away.
Rumble thy bellyful!
Away!
For I am sick when I do look on thee.
I pray you, turn the key and keep our counsel.
Let him thank me, that holp to send him thither, For he was fitter for that place than earth.
Good Master Mustardseed, I know your patience well.
That “banishèd,” that one word “banishèd” Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts.
Why, what wouldst thou do there before I go?
If I see anything tonight why I should not marry her, tomorrow in the congregation, where I should wed, there will I shame her.
None, but your beauty.
I am loath to tell you what I would you knew.
Prithee, who is ’t that thou mean’st?
Bless thy five wits.
Such was the very armour he had on When he the ambitious Norway combated.
I doubt some foul play.
O, he is mad, Laertes.
Yes, that you did, sir, and forswore it too.
What stay had I but Edward?
Thou hadst, and more, Miranda.
Ding, dong, bell.
Her body sleeps in Capels' monument, And her immortal part with angels lives.
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answered?
Such a one is a natural philosopher.
Look, look, a mouse!
Seek to know no more.
Of princes in this number And nobles bearing banners, there lie dead One hundred twenty-six.
They bleed on both sides.—How is it, my lord?
I dare pawn down my life for him that he hath wrote this to feel my affection to your honor and to no other pretense of danger.
Remember who commended thy yellow stockings—” Thy yellow stockings?
Say she be mute and will not speak a word; Then I’ll commend her volubility, And say she uttereth piercing eloquence.
I shall, King Harry.
That shall she.
The weight of this sad time we must obey.
Do but read.
All’s well, sweeting, Come away to bed.— Myself will be your surgeon.
Oh, devil, devil!
Inquire the Jew’s house out.
I am their mother.
I will hide me in the arbor.
You shall not go.
Help, ho, help!
Take thy forfeiture.
Did you see him?
Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural dealing.
Art thou contented, Jew?
Is in his retirement marvelous distempered.
My master will be here ere morning.
I conjure you by that which you profess— Howe'er you come to know it—answer me.
Or he that slew her brothers and her uncles?
Out of my sight!
What was thy cause?
The name of Cassius honors this corruption, And chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
Didst not mark that?
I tell you ’tis not very well.
How do you, women?
If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
Doth Fortune play the huswife with me now?
My lord, I shall reply amazèdly, Half sleep, half waking.
Think not I love him, though I ask for him.
As Caesar loved me, I weep for him.
Have mercy, Jesu!—Soft, I did but dream.
Meantime I writ to Romeo, That he should hither come as this dire night, To help to take her from her borrowed grave, Being the time the potion’s force should cease.
Give me any gage of thine, and I will wear it in my bonnet.
My worthy lord, Your noble friends do lack you.
Thou art translated.
Avaunt, thou witch!—Come, Dromio, let us go.
No, sir, no jot.
So you may put a man in your belly.
My duty cannot suffer To obey in all your daughters' hard commands.
I follow him to serve my turn upon him.
Good my lord.
Not so.
He is unqualitied with very shame.
I, for my part, knew the tailor that made the wings she flew withal.
We talk here in the public haunt of men.
Nay, ’tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin.
Nay, had I power, I should Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell, Uproar the universal peace, confound All unity on earth.
I am a Jew.
Traverse, go, provide thy money.
Do you like this haste?
Farewell.
We have seen the best of our time.
And I as I love Hastings with my heart.
Why, so didst thou.
Worthy Montano, you were wont be civil.
There’s no true drop of blood in him to be truly touched with love.
That face of his I do remember well.
Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
Filths savor but themselves.
Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily, That we have had no time to move our daughter.
He is addressed.
The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day.
Alas, poor ghost!
The arbitrament is like to be bloody.
Her name, that was as fresh As Dian’s visage, is now begrimed and black As mine own face.
Do not think it so unwholesome.
For learn this, Silius
O Corin, that thou knew’st how I do love her!
Did you say all?
Henceforth I’ll bear Affliction till it do cry out itself, “Enough, enough,” and die.
Who shall bar me from them?
There’s strange news come, sir.
I found it thrown in at the casement of my closet.
I stay too long.
Cassius, Be not deceived.
Here, my lord.
Ready, so please your grace.
Goblin, lead them up and down.
This for him.
And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate To act her earthy and abhorred commands, Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee, By help of her more potent ministers And in her most unmitigable rage, Into a cloven pine, within which rift Imprisoned thou didst painfully remain A dozen years; within which space she died And left thee there, where thou didst vent thy groans As fast as mill wheels strike.
Be’st thou sad or merry, The violence of either thee becomes, So does it no man else.—Mett’st thou my posts?
She took the ring of me.
Let him look to his bond.
I marvel why I answered not again.
Come hither, herald.—Let the trumpet sound,— And read out this.
Make haste, lest mine be about your ears ere it be out.
Whither away?
Now he denies it faintly, and laughs it out.
With all my heart I’ll gossip at this feast.
He might have chid me so, for, in good faith, I am a child to chiding.
And private in his chamber pens himself, Shuts up his windows, locks fair daylight out, And makes himself an artificial night.
Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.
And you are well met, Signior Hortensio.
Hie thee, gentle Jew.
His present and your pains we thank you for.
Who comes here?
And every object that might make me fear Misfortune to my ventures out of doubt Would make me sad.
It is heresy.
Most heartily I do beseech the court To give the judgment.
No more a soldier.
Nay, an I tell you that, I’ll ne'er look you i' th' face again.
O Tranio, till I found it to be true, I never thought it possible or likely.
She hath spied him already with those sweet eyes.
Go to, thou art made, if thou desirest to be so—” Am I made?
O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more.
The king enacts more wonders than a man, Daring an opposite to every danger.
But since he stands obdurate And that no lawful means can carry me Out of his envy’s reach, I do oppose My patience to his fury, and am armed To suffer with a quietness of spirit The very tyranny and rage of his.
Upon my soul, a lie, a wicked lie.
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
What mean you, madam?
But let us rear The higher our opinion, that our stirring Can from the lap of Egypt’s widow pluck The ne’er lust-wearied Antony.
Y' have ungently, Brutus, Stole from my bed.
If it be true that good wine needs no bush, ’tis true that a good play needs no epilogue.
Sir, sir, I will have law in Ephesus, To your notorious shame, I doubt it not.
Travelers ne'er did lie, Though fools at home condemn 'em.
Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
Farewell content!
Hear Antony.
Bonos dies, Sir Toby.
I must leave you.
My Regan counsels well.
Therefore no marvel though Demetrius Do, as a monster, fly my presence thus.
And her sister By her is poisoned.
But art thou not drowned, Stephano?
Women’s gentle brain Could not drop forth such giant-rude invention, Such Ethiop words, blacker in their effect Than in their countenance.
Marry, sir, she’s the kitchen wench, and all grease, and I know not what use to put her to but to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light.
O Phoebe, Phoebe, Phoebe!
We know each other’s faces; for our hearts, He knows no more of mine than I of yours, Or I of his, my lord, than you of mine.— Lord Hastings, you and he are near in love.
Go you with me, uncle of Exeter.
If God will be avengèd for this deed, O, know you yet He doth it publicly!
I do beseech you, take it not amiss; I cannot, nor I will not, yield to you.
I speak but brotherly of him, but should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I must blush and weep, and thou must look pale and wonder. 
Let’s briefly put on manly readiness, And meet i' th' hall together.
No.
What is the matter, lady?
There lies your way, due west.
So shall you quietly enjoy your hope And marry sweet Bianca with consent.
I with the morning’s love have oft made sport, And like a forester the groves may tread Even till the eastern gate, all fiery red, Opening on Neptune with fair blessèd beams, Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams.
What, Nurse, I say!
Wherefore?
A foolish heart, that I leave here behind.
She was the wife of Caius Marcellus.
 I meant Hortensio is afraid of you.
Not till God make men of some other metal than earth.
I do believe it, and I ask your pardon.
Run, run, O, run!
Our preparation stands In expectation of them.
You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy.
Prepare we for our marriage; on which day, My Lord of Burgundy, we’ll take your oath, And all the peers', for surety of our leagues.
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves Than tarry till they push us.
Sir, will you, with those infirmities she owes— Unfriended, new adopted to our hate, Dowered with our curse and strangered with our oath— Take her or leave her?
I am very comptible, even to the least sinister usage.
I shall do ’t. 
O Stephano, hast any more of this?
Here is thy fee.
Here comes your father.
May I know?
Macbeth!
Now is the time of help.
I am thus bold to put your Grace in mind Of what you promised me.
He, that Caliban Whom now I keep in service.
O, the kindest Kate!
I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.
Why, how now, Dromio.
Truly, I would the gods had made thee poetical.
Why so?—Ay, that way goes the game.
Since thou dost give me pains, Let me remember thee what thou hast promised, Which is not yet performed me.
There’s not a man I meet but doth salute me As if I were their well-acquainted friend, And every one doth call me by my name.
Follow him, friends.
He has deserved it, were it carbuncled Like holy Phoebus’ car.
I have, when you have heard what I can say.
I am your wife if you will marry me.
What’s the wager?
I was not angry since I came to France Until this instant.
He were an excellent man that were made just in the midway between him and Benedick.
Oh ho, oh ho!
The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head Spits in the face of heaven, is no bar To stop the foreign spirits, but they come As o'er a brook to see fair Portia.
Is there any ships put forth tonight?
He does.
Stephano!
Almost afraid to know itself.
There is a kind of merry war betwixt Signor Benedick and her.
God, God forgive us all!
Come, come.
The lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient.
If it be man’s work, I’ll do ’t.
But well and free, If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here My bluest veins to kiss—a hand that kings Have lipped, and trembled kissing.
Yours in the ranks of death.
Is my lord angry?
Now, fellows, you are welcome.
Lesser than Macbeth and greater.
Much good do you, scald knave, heartily.
Thy asses are gone about 'em.
This was a venture, sir, that Jacob served for— A thing not in his power to bring to pass But swayed and fashioned by the hand of heaven.
Take away the fool, gentlemen.
I will construe to them whence you come.
Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia, Where Caesar fought with Pompey.
Look where he comes.
Doth it?
My father watches.
Why art thou here, Come from the farthest step of India?
My resolution’s placed, and I have nothing Of woman in me.
Curse not thyself, fair creature; thou art both.
O, if I thought that, I’d beat him like a dog!
Write them together, yours is as fair a name.
You wrong me, Signior Gremio.
Caesar speaks.
A man no mightier than thyself or me In personal action, yet prodigious grown, And fearful as these strange eruptions are.
I have looked upon the world for four times seven years, and since I could distinguish betwixt a benefit and an injury I never found man that knew how to love himself.
Thou didst smile Infusèd with a fortitude from heaven, When I have decked the sea with drops full salt, Under my burthen groaned; which raised in me An undergoing stomach to bear up Against what should ensue.
Go not my horse the better, I must become a borrower of the night For a dark hour or twain.
But one fiend at a time, I’ll fight their legions o'er.
You shall do marvelous wisely, good Reynaldo, Before you visit him, to make inquire Of his behavior.
Patience unmoved!
From our brother England?
No, nor mine now.
O Iago, the pity of it, Iago!
Give me my veil.
Let him fly far.
But, good Kate, mock me mercifully, the rather, gentle princess, because I love thee cruelly.
Believe me, sir, It carries a brave form.
I warrant you, madam.
Where should I lose that handkerchief, Emilia?
Romans, countrymen, and lovers!
They never meet but there’s a skirmish of wit between them.
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all In this so sudden business.
But that’s all one
The throng that follows Caesar at the heels, Of senators, of praetors, common suitors, Will crowd a feeble man almost to death.
Call her forth, brother.
Let that appear hereafter, and aim better at me by that I now will manifest.
It is but change, Titinius, for Octavius Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power, As Cassius' legions are by Antony.
I am a fellow o' th' strangest mind i' th' world.
But I do prophesy the election lights On Fortinbras.
You shall be king.
Trow you whither I am going?
Three proper young men of excellent growth and presence.
Folded the writ up in form of th' other, Subscribed it, gave ’t th' impression, placed it safely, The changeling never known.
Adieu.
Please you, farther.
No, madam, I do but read madness.
Where’s Monsieur Mustardseed?
lie on her?
Whose tongue?
Touched you the bastardy of Edward’s children?
Both he loves.
We’ll ha ’t tomorrow night.
This doth betoken The corse they follow did with desperate hand Fordo its own life.
But such officers do the king best service in the end.
 take the priest, the clerk, and some reasonably honest witnesses.
Caesar!
Of one not easily jealous, but being wrought, Perplexed in the extreme.
He, woman.
I lay with Cassio lately And, being troubled with a raging tooth, I could not sleep.
I am the greatest, able to do least, Yet most suspected, as the time and place Doth make against me, of this direful murder.
How now?
Go, good partner, go, get you to Francis Seacole.
I will not stay to offend you.
What, from myself?
It is to be all made of faith and service, And so am I for Phoebe.
That’s a question.
Tis certain.
Ay, so I thought.
Either there is a civil strife in heaven, Or else the world, too saucy with the gods, Incenses them to send destruction.
I crave your highness’ pardon.
An interlude!
Can anything be made of this?
Malcolm and Donalbain, the king’s two sons, Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them Suspicion of the deed.
O sir, to wilful men, The injuries that they themselves procure Must be their schoolmasters.
I pray thee, give it me.
I wish mine eyes Would with themselves shut up my thoughts.
No masque tonight.
I think he would not wish himself anywhere but where he is.
And thereof came it that the man was mad.
I fear it is too choleric a meat.
What is your pleasure?
O thou bloody prison, Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
What, shall I be appointed hours as though, belike, I knew not what to take and what to leave, ha?
Be quiet and depart.
Why, because he was mad.
But he has promised me, as he is a gentleman and a soldier, he will not hurt you.
Sweet now, silence.
It is a hint That wrings mine eyes to ’t.
Hear it not, Duncan, for it is a knell That summons thee to heaven or to hell.
Hark further.
Give me some music.
Madam, he’s married to Octavia.
How now, worthy soldier?
What is ’t you do?
If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good a heart as I can bid the other four farewell, I should be glad of his approach.
Cousin of Buckingham, a word with you.
Nor I neither, by this heavenly light.
Good Grumio, fetch it me.
I think the sun where he was born Drew all such humors from him.
Take note, take note, O world, To be direct and honest is not safe.
Either withdraw unto some private place, And reason coldly of your grievances, Or else depart.
Tell me.
The hand of death hath raught him.
You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark.
Oh, he’s a lovely gentleman.
And, you know, his means, If he improve them, may well stretch so far As to annoy us all; which to prevent, Let Antony and Caesar fall together.
The urging of that word “judgment” hath bred a kind of remorse in me.
What cursèd foot wanders this way tonight To cross my obsequies and true love’s rite?
Soft!
What black magician conjures up this fiend To stop devoted charitable deeds?
Twice did he turn his back and purposed so, But kindness, nobler ever than revenge, And nature, stronger than his just occasion, Made him give battle to the lioness, Who quickly fell before him; in which hurtling, From miserable slumber I awaked.
I know you are no truant.
Make it a word and a blow.
The villain is much lighter-heeled than I. I followed fast, but faster he did fly, That fallen am I in dark uneven way,
First kiss me, Kate, and we will.
As you shall prove us, praise us.
If you outstay the time, upon mine honor And in the greatness of my word, you die.
Ready.
I cannot love him.
We will not fail.
I am fire and air, my other elements I give to baser life.—So, have you done?
You were to blame, I must be plain with you, To part so slightly with your wife’s first gift, A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger And so riveted with faith unto your flesh.
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep As watchman to my heart.
Masters, let him go.
I love thee well in that thou lik’st it not.
Then be thou jocund.
Not black in my mind, though yellow in my legs.
Pooh, you speak like a green girl, Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Murder and treason!
Where was she born?
Of so high and plenteous wit and invention!
It doth not fit me.
Only he hath not yet subscribèd this
Swallows have built In Cleopatra’s sails their nests.
Now, my lord, what shall we do, if we perceive Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots?
Thou 'rt kind.
I was, but I do find more pain in banishment Than death can yield me here by my abode.
All?
Take thy fair hour, Laertes.
O happy fair!
Peace, you were best.
Come, Kate, we’ll to bed.
And therefore haste away, For we must measure twenty miles today.
Why, for that too.
God make your Majesty joyful, as you have been.
The meantime, lady, I’ll raise the preparation of a war Shall stain your brother.
Call!
Thanks to your Highness.
Good, good.
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
A drum, a drum!
I saw him once.
I must eat my dinner.
Thy shape invisible retain thou still.
Well, sir, we will not.
Is he not jealous?
Nor, I am sure, there is no force in eyes That can do hurt.
My Lord of Warwick, here is, praised be God for it, a most contagious treason come to light, look you, as you shall desire in a summer’s day.
Ay, my liege, so please you give us leave.
What is the matter?
Take it, God, For it is none but thine.
Marry, th' athversary was have possession of the pridge, but he is enforced to retire, and the duke of Exeter is master of the pridge.
Now, if you love me, stay.
Madam, so thrive I in my enterprise And dangerous success of bloody wars As I intend more good to you and yours Than ever you or yours were by me harmed!
Do me no foul play, friends.
You all did see that on the Lupercal I thrice presented him a kingly crown, Which he did thrice refuse.
Give me the letter, sir.
What judgment shall I dread, doing no wrong?
Tell not me.
Untimely comes this hurt.
Myself am Naples, Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld The king my father wracked.
Now he importunes him To tell it o'er.
Good madam, be not angry with the child.
There is one goat for you.
Which they will make an obedient father.  
Not that I love you not.
Well, God give them wisdom that have it.
I dare swear he is no hypocrite but prays from his heart.
Yet, when I saw it last, it was besmeared As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war.
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us, sir.
What, not a word?
Give me your answer, i' faith, do; and so clap hands and a bargain.
You have done that you should be sorry for.
My brother he is in Elysium.
Not a hair perished.
Barnardo?
Come now, your promise.
By this sword, he that makes the first thrust, I’ll kill him.
Doth he not deserve well?
Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery And give them friendly welcome every one.
Be near me, that I may remember you.
Now, by the world—      'Tis full of thy foul wrongs.
I have almost slipped the hour.
For one thing she did They would not take her life.
Tis his own blame.
Is not that he that lies upon the ground?
Thou know’st my lodging.
Here’s to thy health.
But speak you this with a sad brow?
Miranda.—O my father, I have broke your hest to say so!
Let us die.
Nature in you stands on the very verge Of his confine.
Belike this is a man of that quirk.
How now, Tubal?
Our tongue is rough, coz, and my condition is not smooth, so that, having neither the voice nor the heart of flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up the spirit of love in her that he will appear in his true likeness. 
The devil take order now!
Madam!
Enobarbus, Antony Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with His bounty overplus.
But yet I feel I fear.
My lord, I would that Thursday were tomorrow.
Thriftless ambition, that will raven up Thine own lives' means!
Well demanded, wench.
Your friends are up and buckle on their armor.
Tut, I have the best armor of the world.
I am hurt.
I desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Mustardseed.
Will you know them then?
All this done Upon the gad?—Edmund, how now?
But who comes here?
So I am—to let him live.
I will be angry.
Answer to that.
An evil soul producing holy witness Is like a villain with a smiling cheek, A goodly apple rotten at the heart.
Old lord, I cannot blame thee, Who am myself attached with weariness To th' dulling of my spirits.
Lo you, here she comes.
My lord.
Hark, boy!
I’ll sell all my land.
Go, one of you, find out the forester.
I’ll to him.
There’s little of the melancholy element in her, my lord.
What man dost thou dig it for?
Hath homely age th' alluring beauty took From my poor cheek?
Antonio, O my dear Antonio!
Double, double toil and trouble, Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
I am glad on ’t.
Come, one for me.
He is too disputable for my company.
Tis well I am found by you.
Go tell him of this.
Thou wast provokèd by thy bloody mind, That never dream’st on aught but butcheries.
I cannot think it.
You did know How much you were my conqueror, and that My sword, made weak by my affection, would Obey it on all cause.
He that has the two fair daughters—is ’t he you mean?
Ready.
Well, all’s one for that.
It is, it is.
Tis wonder that thy life and wits at once Had not concluded all.—He wakes.
My lord, you know I love you.
It is a business of some heat.
I am glad thou canst speak no better English, for if thou couldst, thou wouldst find me such a plain king that thou wouldst think I had sold my farm to buy my crown.
Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.— Joy, gentle friends!
Here, noble lord.
When I have plucked thy rose I cannot give it vital growth again, It must needs wither.
Heaven and earth!
Thy luster thickens When he shines by.
Do thy duty, and have thy duty, for my master and mistress are almost frozen to death.
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses, Therefore use none.
I pray God he be not, I say.
Nurse!
What means your lordship?
Then ’tis most like The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.
Till night, my lord, and all night too.
You whoreson malt-horse drudge!
One of my fellows had the speed of him, Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more Than would make up his message.
The gentleman will, for his honor’s sake, have one bout with you.
Go to, then!
I’ll in to counsel them.
Be as ourself in Denmark.—Madam, come.
Their preparation is today by sea.
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
O, she would laugh me Out of myself, press me to death with wit.
This is a dear manikin to you, Sir Toby.
O illegitimate construction!
Speak the word along.
Thou hast railed on thyself.
No?
The sum of all I can, I have disclosed.
The dew is raw and cold.
The enemy increaseth every day.
Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!
Tis far off, And rather like a dream than an assurance That my remembrance warrants.
What o'clock tomorrow Shall I send to thee?
The English are embattled, you French peers.
Wisdom!
Ride thou unto the horsemen on yond hill.
I never saw a woman, But only Sycorax my dam and she.
Ay me, it is my husband.
What art thou that dost grumble there i' th' straw?
Meantime forbear, And let mischance be slave to patience.— Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
My will, not all the world.
Lay her a-hold, a-hold!
This found I on my tent this morning.
Hang up thy mistress!
That, being mad herself, she’s madly mated.
Speak, Agrippa.
I thought the king had more affected the Duke of Albany than Cornwall.
I crave the law, The penalty, and forfeit of my bond.
Ay, and brought off the field.
Richmond is on the seas.
You cannot better be employed, Bassanio, Than to live still and write mine epitaph.
But I can tell you that of late this duke Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece, Grounded upon no other argument But that the people praise her for her virtues And pity her for her good father’s sake; And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the lady Will suddenly break forth.
This is some priory.
Give me thy hand, And let me see thee in thy woman’s weeds.
A messenger from Caesar.
Ay, by my life, And never did desire to see thee more.
Go, coward as thou art.
Beware Macduff.
Go to the pulpit, Brutus.
As from a bear a man would run for life, So fly I from her that would be my wife.
Or I do forget myself?
Take him hence.
The more my wrong, the more his spite appears.
I dare avouch it, sir.
The Lord Mayor knocks.
Are you wise?
Now all labor Mars what it does.
My lord, what is your will?
What say you?
Take him on the costard with the hilts of thy sword, and then throw him into the malmsey butt in the next room.
O valiant cousin!
Then will I lay the serving creature’s dagger on your pate.
The mind I sway by and the heart I bear Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
Unhappy fortune!
I will do ’t.
God keep me from false friends, but they were none.
See, here he comes.
I pray now, keep below.
He cannot flatter, he.
Grumio, my horse.
Then, God grant me too Thou mayst be damnèd for that wicked deed.
I denied you not.
I’ll attend her here And woo her with some spirit when she comes.
The duke must grant me that.
My lord, you shall o'errule my mind for once.— Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
Good friend, go to him.
I must go with you to Belmont.
And stand indebted, over and above, In love and service to you evermore.
Marry, my uncle Clarence' angry ghost.
Weapons, arms?
I, sir, am Dromio.
Father, and wife, and gentlemen, adieu.
If my heart’s dear love— Well, do not swear.
The king hath note of all that they intend, By interception which they dream not of.
It is a most sharp sauce.
Nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.
What you know, you know.
Hence.
As it ebbs, the seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain, And shortly comes to harvest.
I am the second son of old Sir Rowland, That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
And yesternight, at supper, You suddenly arose and walked about, Musing and sighing, with your arms across, And when I asked you what the matter was, You stared upon me with ungentle looks.
In faith, he’s penitent, And yet his trespass, in our common reason (Save that, they say, the wars must make example Out of her best) is not, almost, a fault T' incur a private check.
I prithee take the cork out of thy mouth, that I may drink thy tidings.
Incapable and shallow innocents, You cannot guess who caused your father’s death.
Is ’t not the king?
How’s the day?
That’s as much as to say, the sweet youth’s in love.
My bones would rest, That have but labored to attain this hour.
To him will I.
Away with him.
But you, sir, altered that, for some hour before you took me from the breach of the sea was my sister drowned.
The Moor himself at sea And is in full commission here for Cyprus.
We pray you for your own sake to embrace your own safety and give over this attempt.
Ah sir, ah sir.
Master Constable, you go not the way to examine.
The day is spent.
 you must prepare yourself for his knife.
Pass.
Then I would you were so honest a man.
So shall I, love, And so, I pray, be you.
For this, be sure, tonight thou shalt have cramps, Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up.
Make haste, make haste, sirrah.
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her Shall have the chinks.
Then if we lose this battle You are contented to be led in triumph Thorough the streets of Rome?
If she deny to wed, I’ll crave the day When I shall ask the banns and when be marrièd.
Let us withdraw.
To feed my humor, wish thyself no harm.
Oh, ’tish ill done, ’tish ill done, by my hand, ’tish ill done.
Truly, an obedient lady.
Therefore this project
Not a whit.
What a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of England to mope with his fat-brained followers so far out of his knowledge.
Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman.
I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
Ne'er may I look on day, nor sleep on night But she tells to your Highness simple truth.
Whereby hangs a tale, sir?
Is it a true thing?
And thou unfit for any place but hell.
Go thy ways, wench.
Who’s there, besides foul weather?
No.
As good cause as one would desire.
As far, my lord, as will fill up the time 'Twixt this and supper.
Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not Than our earth’s wonder, more than earth divine.
Please, let me stay.
And I, my royal sovereign.
What dost thou profess?
Signor Bassanio, hear me.
But though we think it so, it is no matter.
You shall see anon how the murderer gets the love of Gonzago’s wife.
I pray, sir, can you read?
Shame come to Romeo!
No, alas, I found it And I did give ’t my husband.
Bear it straight, And bring thy master home immediately.
Bring a corollary, Rather than want a spirit.
Sit you too.
Alas, alas!
Let me enjoy my private.
Stay, countrymen.
Pray, have you not a daughter Called Katherina, fair and virtuous?
Then weep no more.
I hope he be in love.
Give me my principal, and let me go.
Expound unto me, boy.
Twill be ill taken.
Near and on speedy foot.
Past all expressing.
But there the Duke was given to understand That in a gondola were seen together Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica.
I pray you now receive them.
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you, though I know to divide him inventorially would dizzy th' arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw neither, in respect of his quick sail. 
Alas, poor shepherd, searching of thy wound, I have by hard adventure found mine own.
I am too sore enpiercèd with his shaft To soar with his light feathers, and so bound, I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe.
Tis nine o'clock.
Sweet friends, to bed.
I care not if I have.
I never felt it till now—Two thousand ducats in that, and other precious, precious jewels.
Mistress, upon my life I tell you true.
Ay, my lord.
I overheard him and his practices.
Young Romeo is it?
Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a good life; but in respect that it is a shepherd’s life, it is naught.
False, false.
So befall my soul As this is false he burdens me withal.
Edgar I nothing am.
I will not shame myself to give you this.
I confess two sleeves.
We, Hermia, like two artificial gods, Have with our needles created both one flower, Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, Both warbling of one song, both in one key, As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds, Had been incorporate.
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, 'Where is your mother?
I say he shall go to prison.
I can no more.
I am all the daughters of my father’s house, And all the brothers too—and yet I know not.
Is that the meaning of “accost”?
Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman, And I, to blame, have held him here too long.
Soldier, you must come to the king.
Give me the cups.
To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight.
For when rich villains have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what price they will.
Very well mended.
Niggard of question, but of our demands Most free in his reply.
Called you, my lord?
No, he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in Athens.
Even so quickly may one catch the plague?
Come, wherefore should you be so pashful?
Go but with me tonight, you shall see her chamber window entered, even the night before her wedding day.
Sola, sola!
As long as heaven and nature lengthens it.
A grandam’s name is little less in love Than is the doting title of a mother.
Boy!
If it assume my noble father’s person, I’ll speak to it, though Hell itself should gape And bid me hold my peace.
It is too hard a knot for me to untie!
Thou changèd and self-covered thing, for shame!
O sir, content you.
Of what personage and years is he?
She stood and spake.
Is he not able to discharge the money?
Your lady mother is coming to your chamber.
I shall fall.
Say you?
Welcome home, Grumio.
Therein, ye gods, you make the weak most strong.
No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge.
If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.
Only myself stood out; For which, if I be lapsèd in this place, I shall pay dear.
What hath he said?
If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it, And I will break with her and with her father, And thou shalt have her.
Good Father, how foolish are our minds!
Farewell.
Minion, your dear lies dead, And your unblest fate hies.
Our brother is imprisoned by your means, Myself disgraced, and the nobility Held in contempt, while great promotions Are daily given to ennoble those That scarce some two days since were worth a noble.
Good friend, be gone.
The Prince will doom thee death If thou art taken.
Hence.
Mistress!
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen tonight!
Pray you, let’s have no more fooling about it, but give me your blessing.
Did you never see the picture of “We Three”?
My noble father, I do perceive here a divided duty.
My lord, I have considered in my mind The late request that you did sound me in.
Doth she not count her blessed, Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought So worthy a gentleman to be her bride?
Stand far off.
No jewel is like Rosalind.
Five summers have I spent in farthest Greece, Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia, And, coasting homeward, came to Ephesus, Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought Or that or any place that harbors men.
My Lord of Warwick and my brother Gloucester, Follow Fluellen closely at the heels.
Hath it not, boy?
Who’s his lieutenant, hear you?
Which do not be entreated to, but weigh What it is worth embraced.
Thou teachest me.
By mine honor I will, and when I break that oath, let me turn monster.
Why, the end is he hath lost a ship.
Go, Sir Andrew.
Ay, let the county take you in your bed.
Get you to your lord.
Peace, fool.
I do lack some part Of that quick spirit that is in Antony.
And what of all this?
I would not be the villain that thou think’st For the whole space that’s in the tyrant’s grasp, And the rich East to boot.
There was a noise, That’s verily.
Say you so?
And is he a man to encounter Tybalt?
Why then, my cousin, Margaret, and Ursula Are much deceived, for they did swear you did.
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
Now, herald, are the dead numbered?
In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword.
What, bear her in hand until they come to take hands and then, with public accusation, uncovered slander, unmitigated rancor—O God, that I were a man!
Jailer, look to him.
Who is here so vile that will not love his country?
Approach and speak.
O, teach me how I should forget to think!
Fie, Demetrius!
Thou villain Capulet!
Good madam, hear me.
 my crown and my queen.
All that I will tell you is that the duke hath dined.
Past question, for thou seest it will not curl by nature.
And be not easily won to our requests.
Have you no modesty, no maiden shame, No touch of bashfulness?
I had rather be a toad And live upon the vapor of a dungeon Than keep a corner in the thing I love For others' uses.
Shall we not?
How is ’t, Laertes?
But new struck nine.
My lord is often thus And hath been from his youth.
Dost thou mock me?
To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi.
His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
Your ladyship were best to have some guard about you if he come, for sure the man is tainted in ’s wits.
I’ll confine myself no finer than I am.
Of it own color too.
Beat—
Give him direction for this merry bond, And I will go and purse the ducats straight, See to my house left in the fearful guard Of an unthrifty knave, and presently I will be with you.
If from the field I shall return once more To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood.
How chance the king comes with so small a train?
My father’s bears more toward the marketplace.
If thou entertainest my love, let it appear in thy smiling.
Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as soon moody to be moved.
What is ’t thou canst demand?
It were a better death than die with mocks, Which is as bad as die with tickling.
Who talks of my nation?
I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways.
O, then I see you will part but with light gifts.
Speak, hands, for me!
Besides, it should appear that if he had The present money to discharge the Jew, He would not take it.
Adieu, noble Agrippa.
Not altogether so, sir.
Dost thou in conscience think—tell me, Emilia— That there be women do abuse their husbands In such gross kind?
Do this expediently, and turn him going.
Antonio, as I heard in Genoa— What, what, what?
He were no lion were not Romans hinds.
I do not set my life in a pin’s fee, And for my soul—what can it do to that, Being a thing immortal as itself?
Sweet Desdemona!
Why, this is not a boon, 'Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves, Or feed on nourishing dishes, or keep you warm, Or sue to you to do a peculiar profit To your own person.
Against my brother Lucius?
Now fare you well, good sir.
Heavens, I am the best of them that speak this speech, Were I but where ’tis spoken.
So should we you, if you should be our king.
This in the public eye?
These things sting His mind so venomously that burning shame Detains him from Cordelia.
I know you are not ignorant— I would you did, sir.
Trust me, I fear it has.
Yes indeed.
Heaven me such uses send, Not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend!
I hope this passionate humor of mine will change.
What a sigh is there!
Love?
The testament!
I long with all my heart to see the prince.
I have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking.
Well, I cannot tell. 
Nor will you tender less.
Ay, a tailor, sir.
Good fool, some ink, paper, and light, and convey what I will set down to my lady.
I have not ’scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs.
Fare you well.
Lay on, Macduff, And damned be him that first cries, “Hold, enough!” I would the friends we miss were safe arrived.
Counterfeit?
O perdurable shame!
Wherefore throng you hither?
Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you?
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
So ’tis to thee.
She was false as water.
Fie, now you run this humor out of breath.
But make amends now.
Whisper her ear and tell her I and Ursula Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse Is all of her.
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
I do hear the morning lark.
If I were bound to divine of this unity, I would not prophesy so. 
What’s the disease he means?
A proper man.
If you will come to me— For now I spy a danger—I entreat you To bring but five and twenty.
He’ll watch the horologe a double set If drink rock not his cradle.
Has this fellow no feeling of his business?
He hath.
But, as they say, to hear music the general does not greatly care.
Better be with the dead, Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace, Than on the torture of the mind to lie In restless ecstasy.
Thou art a strange fellow.
Alas, what is the matter?
Where, my lord?
By this hand, they are scoundrels and substractors that say so of him.
We shall know by this fellow.
Ay, he was porn at Monmouth, Captain Gower.
Well, my dread lord—so must I call you now.
Yes, certainly, and out of doubt and out of question, too, and ambiguities.
And to run away from the Jew I should be ruled by the fiend, who, saving your reverence, is the devil himself.
Commend me to Lord William.
List'ning their fear I could not say “Amen,” When they did say “God bless us!” Consider it not so deeply.
All ready.
If in thy wisdom thou canst give no help, Do thou but call my resolution wise, And with this knife I’ll help it presently.
Your brother is but young and tender, and, for your love I would be loath to foil him, as I must for my own honor if he come in.
Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
Seek, seek for him, Lest his ungoverned rage dissolve the life That wants the means to lead it.
O simple!
That thing you speak of, I took it for a man.
I will confess to you that I love him.
If thou dost find him tractable to us, Encourage him and show him all our reasons.
By this hand, I am.
Perish the man whose mind is backward now!
Come, help to bear thy master.
Into a thousand parts divide one man, And make imaginary puissance.
We’ll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
I am sure I am none such.
Now, my dearest Queen— Pray you, stand farther from me.
Receive what cheer you may.
Such unconstant starts are we like to have from him as this of Kent’s banishment.
I am given, sir, secretly to understand that your younger brother Orlando hath a disposition to come in disguised against me to try a fall.
Shall I have the thought To think on this, and shall I lack the thought That such a thing bechanced would make me sad?
For, since the mortal and intestine jars 'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us, It hath in solemn synods been decreed Both by the Syracusians and ourselves, To admit no traffic to our adverse towns.
Dear my lord, if you in your own proof Have vanquished the resistance of her youth And made defeat of her virginity— I know what you would say
My resolution and my hands I’ll trust, None about Caesar.
Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of the king’s fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
Dost thou affect her, Claudio?
What follows, then, my lord?
Tis a good dullness, And give it way.
Who?
If, sir, perchance She have restrained the riots of your followers, 'Tis on such ground and to such wholesome end As clears her from all blame.
Name them.
How beauteous mankind is!
Peace, I say!
Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends, For my heart speaks they are welcome.
What less than doomsday is the Prince’s doom?
How if the kiss be denied?
It is not for your health thus to commit Your weak condition to the raw, cold morning.
Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites, And show the best of our delights.
The order was reversed.
These three world-sharers, these competitors, Are in thy vessel.
Who’s there?
Come, uncle Exeter, Go you and enter Harfleur.
No, I will go seek Some ditch wherein to die.
The best in this kind are but shadows, and the worst are no worse if imagination amend them.
How came these things to pass?
Well then, confess and live.
You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames Into her scornful eyes!
I think it well, my lord.
And for the rest o' th' fleet, Which I dispersed, they all have met again And are upon the Mediterranean float, Bound sadly home for Naples, Supposing that they saw the king’s ship wracked And his great person perish.
Good.
Now, by my sword—                                              And target.
To the mines?
The starry welkin cover thou anon With drooping fog as black as Acheron, And lead these testy rivals so astray As one come not within another’s way.
But truly, for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a king, I could find it in my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
Help to bear this away where my hogshead of wine is, or I’ll turn you out of my kingdom.
She cannot love Nor take no shape nor project of affection She is so self-endeared.
Where is he now?
Well, I will hie, And so bestow these papers as you bade me.
Please it your Grace lead on?
Why, there’s no remedy.
Here cease more questions.
Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe, A villain that is hither come in spite To scorn at our solemnity this night.
What mean you, Caesar?
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket and give it his son for an apple.
What is thy name?
O hell, what have we here?
Lo, now, lo!
What should we say, my lord?
Shall I vent to her that thou art coming?
Look, when I vow, I weep.
Your husband being troubled with a shrew Measures my husband’s sorrow by his woe.
I am afraid, methinks, to hear you tell it.
How 'gree you now?
Glance at my credit with Hippolyta, Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night From Perigouna, whom he ravishèd?
Who’s there?
I may do that I shall be sorry for.
For they were parted With foul and violent tempest.
No, I am promised forth.
Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies, For she hath blessèd and attractive eyes.
Tis torture and not mercy.
That which is now a horse, even with a thought The rack dislimns and makes it indistinct As water is in water.
Why, the enemy is loud.
Ay, that Petruchio came.
How comes it now, my husband, O, how comes it That thou art thus estranged from thyself?
Tis time I should inform thee farther.
To be once in doubt Is to be resolved.
When the moon shone we did not see the candle.
How came you, Cassio, by that handkerchief That was my wife’s?
Why, that’s the way To fool their preparation and to conquer Their most absurd intents.
But I beseech your Grace pardon me.
I pray thee, tell me then that he is well.
I’ll follow thee and make a heaven of hell, To die upon the hand I love so well.
Decius, well urged.
O proud death, What feast is toward in thine eternal cell, That thou so many princes at a shot So bloodily hast struck?
One, sir, that for his love dares yet do more Than you have heard him brag to you he will.
No news of them?
The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not.
For all the rest, They’ll take suggestion as a cat laps milk.
O most happy hour!
Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
Remember March, the ides of March remember.
I know thee well enough.
That nothing do but meditate on blood, To swearing and stern looks, diffused attire, And everything that seems unnatural.
It cannot be.
Shall I play my freedom at tray-trip, and become thy bondslave?
Most heathenish and most gross!
Be witness to me, O thou blessèd moon, When men revolted shall upon record Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did Before thy face repent.
I have said.
We will spare for no wit, I warrant you.
In such a night as this!
I have heard it said so.
Hush!
Tis a shrewd doubt, though it be but a dream.
What would you say to me now, an I were your very, very Rosalind?
Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile, And touch thy instrument a strain or two?
How, in one house, Should many people under two commands Hold amity?
How many, as you guess?
Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance From those that she calls servants, or from mine?
The leisure and the fearful time Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love And ample interchange of sweet discourse, Which so-long-sundered friends should dwell upon.
Can you not stay awhile?
If not, he’s plain.
Oh, that you bore The mind that I do, what a sleep were this For your advancement!
Cesario, you do not keep promise with me.
Four nights will quickly dream away the time.
And, dying so, death is to him advantage; or not dying, the time was blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained.
God be wi' you and keep you and heal your pate.
So fare you well till we shall meet again.
Treason and murder ever kept together As two yoke-devils sworn to either’s purpose, Working so grossly in a natural cause That admiration did not whoop at them.
Dost thou not see my baby at my breast, That sucks the nurse asleep?
Go, prick thy face and over-red thy fear, Thou lily-livered boy.
Bad news, my lord.
If thou didst ever thy dear father love— O God!
What was the second noise for?
Antonio and old Shylock, both stand forth.
Have I not reason, beldams as you are?
What wouldst thou? 
And yet complainest thou of obstruction?
What wouldst thou do, old man?
Shylock is my name.
Are you drawn forth among a world of men To slay the innocent?
Oh!
Let’s hear him, for the things he speaks may concern Caesar.
Ay, sir.
Will you walk towards him?
What, with the case of eyes?
No.
Cassio did top her, ask thy husband else.
I do arrest you, sir.
He sent me word if I said his beard was not cut well, he was in the mind it was.
In each thing give him way.
Thou sayest his sports were hinderd by thy brawls.
No, to their lives ill friends were contrary.
I would they were, that I might die at once, For now they kill me with a living death.
What is the matter?
He longs to see your head.
I call thee not.
And so they are.
Now ’mongst this flock of drunkards Am I to put our Cassio in some action That may offend the isle.
Whose hand soever launched their tender hearts, Thy head, all indirectly, gave direction.
So did I too, and he swore he would marry her tonight.
Most sincerely.
I hope thou art not mad.
Get thee gone, but do it.
I have possessed your grace of what I purpose, And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn To have the due and forfeit of my bond.
But what though?
Hear me for my cause, and be silent that you may hear.
Meseemeth good that with some little train Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fet Hither to London, to be crowned our king.
I have had four quarrels, and like to have fought one.
How oft tonight Have my old feet stumbled at graves!—Who’s there?
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste Doth make the night joint laborer with the day?
No, great king.
I think so too.
O, sir, the conceit is deeper than you think for.
Pat, pat.
You praise yourself By laying defects of judgment to me, but You patched up your excuses.
Yes, sir, but anger hath a privilege.
Go, Eros, send his treasure after.
True.
And he did bid us follow to the temple.
I see a woman may be made a fool If she had not a spirit to resist.
This would drink deep.
Well, girl, thou weep’st not so much for his death, As that the villain lives which slaughtered him.
Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash To be a party in this injury.— Patience awhile, good Cassio.—Come, come, Lend me a light.
Not in love neither?
This torture should be roared in dismal hell.
Marry, come up, I trow.
Drink thou.
A grave?
Then, to answer every man directly and briefly, wisely and truly—wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
Out of my sight!
But oh, poor Gloucester— Lost he his other eye?
What was your dream, my lord?
If you will take a homely man’s advice, Be not found here.
I never gave him token.
See how yon justice rails upon yon simple thief.
Quite dumb?
Will you deny me now?
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks, Shall win my love, and so I take my leave, In resolution as I swore before.
Why do you speak to me?
And let her speak of me before her father.
He may show what outward courage he will, but I believe, as cold a night as ’tis, he could wish himself in Thames up to the neck; and so I would he were, and I by him, at all adventures, so we were quit here.
The town sounds a parley.
Go on before.
Come, shall we about it?
That’s certain—if the devil may be her judge.
The more I love, the more he hateth me.
If he do, sure he cannot weep ’t back again.
I will make fast the doors and gild myself With some more ducats, and be with you straight.
Lead away.
Caesar, I shall.
Sir Topas!
Calling death “banishment,” Thou cutt’st my head off with a golden ax And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin.
Dido and her Aeneas shall want troops, And all the haunt be ours.—Come, Eros, Eros!
You look wearily.
Then I will come to my mother by and by.
I charge you by the law, Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar, Proceed to judgment.
Come, good Athenian.
Is ’t not strange?
Is ’t like that lead contains her?
For my part, I care not.
Because my name is George.
Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.
But, first or last, Your fine Egyptian cookery shall have The fame.
Hadst thou no poison mixed, no sharp-ground knife, No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean, But “banishèd” to kill me?—“Banishèd”!
How now, brother Edmund?
Ay, on mine honor.
And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I!
I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a thought browner; and your gown’s a most rare fashion, i' faith.
Shall we see this wrestling, cousin? 
That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
Let him be Caesar!
If not, an it would please you to take leave of her, she is very willing to bid you farewell.
You have good judgment in horsemanship.
My wits faints.
This shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious, Which so appearing to the common eyes, We shall be called purgers, not murderers.
Soft, soft!
I cannot hope Caesar and Antony shall well greet together.
Nothing, Messala.
Assume a virtue if you have it not.
Fortune now To my heart’s hope!
I am a soldier, I, Older in practice, abler than yourself To make conditions.
What revels are in hand?
Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.
The jewels you have had from me to deliver Desdemona would half have corrupted a votaress.
Brother— Content yourself.
And to that place the sharp Athenian law Cannot pursue us.
She that would alter services with thee,  The Fortunate Unhappy”  Daylight and champaign discovers not more.
So much for praising myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is praiseworthy.
Take you some company, and away to horse.
Call him.
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.— Is it e'en so?
No, fair princess.
Portia is dead.
Murder!
Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found.
All’s hushed as midnight yet.
Fight valiantly today.
But speak you on.
But we are spirits of another sort.
Oh, on my soul, my cousin is belied!
If this were true, then should I know this secret.
I fear I wrong the honorable men Whose daggers have stabbed Caesar.
I am maimed for ever.
Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn, The gallant, young, and noble gentleman, The County Paris, at Saint Peter’s Church, Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
I’ll to my charge.
Nay, an you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be looked to.
Ebbing men indeed Most often do so near the bottom run By their own fear or sloth.
He hath slept long.
I may sit in a corner and cry, “Heigh-ho for a husband!” Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
Fair Leda’s daughter had a thousand wooers; Then well one more may fair Bianca have.
And Cassius too.
I am glad to see you in this merry vein.
All this is so, but what of this, my lord?
If without peril it be possible, Sweet Blunt, make some good means to speak with him, And give him from me this most needful note.
To the death, my lord.
Read thou this challenge.
In honored love.
Art thou indeed?
God has given you one face and you make yourselves another.
If ever I return to you again, I’ll bring you comfort.
A gentleman?
Say, uncle Gloucester, if our brother come, Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
Then have at thee, boy!
That “may be” must be, love, on Thursday next.
If so, then be not tongue-tied.
I never did like molestation view On the enchafèd flood.
I’ll fight till from my bones my flesh be hacked.
The poison of that lies in you to temper.
We’ll wait upon your lordship.
Come, prepare.
That’s mercy, but too much security.
What warlike noise is this?
O limèd soul that, struggling to be free, Art more engaged!
Coraggio, bully-monster,  If these be true spies which I wear in my head, here’s a goodly sight.
See me no more, whether he be dead or no.
What treasure, uncle?
Hence, Lest that th' infection of his fortune take Like hold on thee.
I had a pass with him, rapier, scabbard, and all, and he gives me the stuck-in with such a mortal motion, that it is inevitable.
Thy case, dear friend, Shall be my precedent.
Was not Charles, the duke’s wrestler, here to speak with me?
I am not married, Caesar.
O God, she comes.—O honey Nurse, what news?
I would my father looked but with my eyes.
Come, down into the boat.
Yet I have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds.
I do not see them bleed.
More matter for a May morning.
And this report Hath so exasperated the king that he Prepares for some attempt of war.
I never gave him cause.
Th’ art an honest man.
To whom, my lord?
Three in Egypt Cannot make better note.
I’ll pull thee by the lesser legs.
In most profound earnest, and, I’ll warrant you, for the love of Beatrice.
Peter, didst ever see the like?
What, frighted with false fire?
If you do sorrow at my grief in love, By giving love your sorrow and my grief Were both extermined.
Let him come in.
You have seen cruel proof of this man’s strength.
I fear no uncles dead.
I may command where I adore.” Why, she may command me.
A match!
Caesar is turned to hear.
Thou say’st the king grows mad.
Did she see thee the while, old boy?
They are weary?
The motions of his spirit are dull as night, And his affections dark as Erebus.
See it done And feast the army.
Sir, sir, that cannot be.
For what advancement may I hope from thee That no revenue hast but thy good spirits, To feed and clothe thee?
If so, be patient, sister.
I will not.
I have myself resolved upon a course Which has no need of you.
Why had I one?
God bless your Grace with health and happy days.
That’s not the tune.
Why, then All Souls' Day is my body’s doomsday.
I am glad that my weak words Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus.
Tomorrow will I send.
My own flesh and blood to rebel!
Where is Duncan’s body?
Oh, strange!
Not so happy, yet much happier.
He is in heaven, where thou shalt never come.
Tis not yet near day.
There will she hide her To listen our propose.
An oath of mickle might, and fury shall abate.
And golden Phoebus never be beheld Of eyes again so royal!
Even this repays me.— We sent our schoolmaster.
For shame, you generals!
I do think there is mettle in death, which commits some loving act upon her, she hath such a celerity in dying.
My quaint Ariel, Hark in thine ear.
There is your money that I had to keep.
A very gentle beast, of a good conscience.
I can swim like a duck, I’ll be sworn.
He’s a coward and a coistrel that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn o' th' toe like a parish top.
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff.
The queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
There lies the man, slain by young Romeo, That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
Cupid is a knavish lad  Thus to make poor females mad.
I can live no longer by thinking.
Sure ones, then.
Go with my brothers to my lords of England.
By my life, I do.
I know thee well.
So the gods keep you And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends.
Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste, And every day I cannot come to woo.
Good heart, at what?
If he fail of that, He will have other means to cut you off.
Of my kind uncle, that I know will give, And being but a toy, which is no grief to give.
My liege, They are not yet come back.
Last night of all, When yond same star that’s westward from the pole Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself, The bell then beating one— Peace, break thee off.
And what your Highness suffered under that shape, I beseech you take it for your own fault and not mine, for, had you been as I took you for, I made no offense.
I never did deny it.
I charge thee, be not thou more grieved than I am.
Where is this rash and most unfortunate man?
That were the most if he should   husband you.
We say the king Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous.
What do you think of me?
I have been your tenant and your father’s tenant these fourscore years.
Fiery”?
Welcome hither.
Come, therefore, and to Thasos send his body.
Not so, not so.
Trouble him no more Till further settling.
Your case is better.
Give me my sin again.
But he sleeps.
Cassius, what night is this!
How smooth and even they do bear themselves, As if allegiance in their bosoms sat Crownèd with faith and constant loyalty.
Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady— Out, hyperbolical fiend!
Why, Fool?
Well, I know not What counts harsh Fortune casts upon my face, But in my bosom shall she never come To make my heart her vassal.
But when shall we set the savage bull’s horns on the sensible Benedick’s head?
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me.
Where is Antony?
You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant.
I would entreat you rather to put on Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends That purpose merriment.
Lead, monster; we’ll follow.
Ay, so we will.
Take up the bodies.
Now, Cinna.—Now, Metellus.—What, Trebonius, I have an hour’s talk in store for you.
Answer me in one word.
The thrice three Muses mourning for the death  Of learning, late deceased in beggary.” That is some satire, keen and critical, Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony.
How now, my lord?
O, they did urge it still unto the king.
Tis better as it is.
No, he’s a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son, for he’s a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman before him.
Leave you your power to draw, And I shall have no power to follow you.
Madam, I come to whet your gentle thoughts On his behalf.
 it’ll nap until I come back.
Who would be jealous, then, of such a one?
None that I more love than myself.
Poor venomous fool Be angry and dispatch.
Flatterers?—Now, Brutus, thank yourself.
A pound of man’s flesh taken from a man Is not so estimable, profitable neither, As flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats.
But it would warm his spirits To hear from me you had left Antony And put yourself under his shroud, The universal landlord.
They are afoot.
I dreamt a dream tonight.
But I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be the better prepared for an answer if peradventure this be true.
God save your Majesty.
To make society The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself Till suppertime alone.
If she lives till doomsday, she’ll burn a week longer than the whole world.
It seems that you scorn me.
Octavia weeps To part from Rome.
For every minute is expectancy Of more arrivance.
It seems he hath great care to please his wife.
Double, double toil and trouble, Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
Help me hence, ho!
Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?
Have you not read, Roderigo, Of some such thing?
O Caesar!
When it appears to you where this begins, Turn your displeasure that way, for our faults Can never be so equal that your love Can equally move with them.
To this, add defiance, and tell him, for conclusion, he hath betrayed his followers, whose condemnation is pronounced.” So far my king and master; so much my office.
He hath, my lord.
Good thou, save me a piece of marchpane, and, as thou loves me, let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.—Antony and Potpan!
Send him but hither and I’ll fashion him.
Marry, we were sent for to the justices.
We wait upon your Grace.
Thus have I politicly begun my reign, And ’tis my hope to end successfully.
Away, get thee away.
I did not give the lie.
His bark is stoutly timbered and his pilot Of very expert and approved allowance Therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death, Stand in bold cure.
Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
For what, I pray thee?
Yes, faith.
To thee, that hast nor honesty nor grace.
Thy Clarence he is dead that stabbed my Edward, And the beholders of this frantic play, Th' adulterate Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey, Untimely smothered in their dusky graves.
This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood.
Peace, you dull fool.
Where is he?
Even so.
What company is this?
Tis but a little way that I can bring you, For I attend here.
Whence come you?
Tell him my fury shall abate, and I the crowns will take.
If she and I be pleased, what’s that to you?
I’ll tell my husband, Launcelot, what you say.
An honest man he is, and hates the slime That sticks on filthy deeds.
Oh, farewell!
Abominable villain!
Call you me “fair”?
The mighty gods defend thee!
And too soon marred are those so early made.
Alack the day, I know you not, young gentleman.
This night I’ll spend Unto a dismal and a fatal end.
How long hath she been thus?
Goodly Lord, what a wit-snapper are you!
Ring the alarum bell.
Long stayed he so.
Is that his answer?
Speak, speak!
Away, away, for he is coming hither!
Twere good you do so much for charity.
My royal lord, You do not give the cheer.
Most learnèd judge, a sentence!
But ere they came,–O, let me say no more!
Then both, or one, or anything thou wilt.
Advise your fellows so.
What’s this to my Lysander?
I know it pleaseth neither of us well.
Not so, my lord.
After dinner Your hazard shall be made.
Sweets to the sweet.
Methinks sometimes I have no more wit than a Christian or an ordinary man has.
Who else should be?
I will not hurt him.
Be subject To no sight but thine and mine, invisible To every eyeball else.
There is, there is.
Most monstrous, oh!
Who could refrain, That had a heart to love, and in that heart Courage to make ’s love known?
What would you with her, sir?
What I should deny— As this I would, ay, though thou didst produce My very character—I’d turn it all To thy suggestion, plot, and damnèd practice.
No, good mother.
I will weep for thee, For this revolt of thine methinks is like Another fall of man.—Their faults are open.
Be ruled.
An thou hadst been set i' th' stocks for that question, thou’dst well deserved it.
If we be not relieved within this hour, We must return to th’ court of guard.
Which of these sorrows is he subject to?
And till the tears that she hath shed for thee Like envious floods o'errun her lovely face, She was the fairest creature in the world— And yet she is inferior to none.
With all my heart.—Some three or four of you Go give him courteous conduct to this place.— Meantime the court shall hear Bellario’s letter.
I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus, As well as I do know your outward favor.
It is the green-eyed monster which doth mock The meat it feeds on.
My master’s a very Jew.
Tide life, tide death, I come without delay.
O, give me leave.
But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have you?
Ay, is ’t, I warrant him.
Yes, sir, I have indeed.
Peace, sirrah!
Had she affections and warm youthful blood, She would be as swift in motion as a ball.
Let me see now,
Is it no more but this—a tardiness in nature Which often leaves the history unspoke That it intends to do?—My lord of Burgundy, What say you to the lady?
It is a branch and parcel of mine oath, A charitable duty of my order.
How is ’t?
An we do not, it is pity of our lives.
I can tell your Majesty, the duke is a prave man.
We must be married, or we must live in bawdry.—Farewell, good Master Oliver, not               'Tis no matter.
If, Duke of Burgundy, you would the peace, Whose want gives growth to th' imperfections Which you have cited, you must buy that peace With full accord to all our just demands, Whose tenors and particular effects You have, enscheduled briefly, in your hands.
My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
I tell thee, man, ’tis better with me now Than when thou met’st me last where now we meet.
It is a pretty youth—not very pretty— But sure he’s proud—and yet his pride becomes him.
Then love me, Rosalind.
No, to Whitefriars.
Serve God, love me, and mend.
Had I a glass, I would.
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses.
I grant I am a woman, but withal A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife.
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
There’s no time for a man to recover his hair that grows bald by nature.
My dear’st sister!
Why, how now, Count, wherefore are you sad?
You have said now.
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation.
Then shall I swear to Kate, and you to me, And may our oaths well kept and prosp'rous be.
Well, daughter, and you gentlewomen all, Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves, And when I send for you, come hither masked.
Nay, then— Well, well, th' event.
Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I break my shins against it.
Be assured you may.
Wot you what, my lord?
I know thy quality.
You cannot, if my heart were in your hand, Nor shall not, whilst ’tis in my custody.
Look, he wears cruel garters.
Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
We’ll so begin these rites As we do trust they’ll end, in true delights.
Ride, ride, Messala.
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
Sir, sir, sir—
Fare you well.
So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
I prithee, put them off.
What think’st thou then of Stanley?
I am doubtful that you have been conjunct And bosomed with her as far as we call hers.
Two nights together had these gentlemen, Marcellus and Barnardo, on their watch, In the dead waste and middle of the night, Been thus encountered
I pray you, remember the porter.
Am I that name, Iago?
What is decreed must be, and be this so.
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet Are of imagination all compact.
Good Cinna, take this paper, And look you lay it in the praetor’s chair Where Brutus may but find it.
An you love me, let’s do ’t.
O damned Iago!
Here is my journey’s end, here is my butt, And very sea-mark of my utmost sail.
I am heartily glad I came hither to you.
With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
Swoons rather, for so bad a prayer as his Was never yet for sleep.
I make not, but foresee.
What beast was ’t, then, That made you break this enterprise to me?
I prithee—and I’ll pay thee bounteously— Conceal me what I am, and be my aid For such disguise as haply shall become The form of my intent.
Come, gentlemen, Let us consult upon tomorrow’s business Into my tent.
He sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
Quickly let me have it.
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
They are entirely welcome.
Unkindness may do much, And his unkindness may defeat my life, But never taint my love.
True, noble prince.
There is a fair behavior in thee, captain, And though that nature with a beauteous wall Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee I will believe thou hast a mind that suits With this thy fair and outward character.
Have you had quiet guard?
Or I have no observance.
As you on him, Demetrius dote on you!
Do you know what you say?
If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
A peevish schoolboy, worthless of such honor, Joined with a masker and a reveler!
I dare make his answer, none.
You, you, sirrah, where’s my daughter?
Pray thee, go seek him, and bring him to my tent.
He, when he hears of her, cannot refrain From the excess of laughter.
No, not a denier.
Remember that you call on me today.
Well, you have made a simple choice.
If thou hadst feared to break an oath by Him, Th' imperial metal circling now thy head Had graced the tender temples of my child, And both the princes had been breathing here, Which now, two tender bedfellows for dust, Thy broken faith hath made the prey for worms.
Twas where you wooed the gentlewoman so well.
Bottom!
Tell me your counsels.
These both put off, a poor petitioner, A care-crazed mother to a many sons, A beauty-waning and distressèd widow, Even in the afternoon of her best days, Made prize and purchase of his wanton eye, Seduced the pitch and height of his degree To base declension and loathed bigamy.
Can you smell him out by that?
If he be absent, bring his brother to me.
Our force by land Hath nobly held.
Base is the slave that pays.
Oh, I have suffered With those that I saw suffer.
And in part him, but,” you may say, “not well.
Nor will not.
But what talk we of fathers when there is such a man as Orlando?
Your graces are right welcome.
Oh!
Thou bleed’st apace.
You the like loss?
What many men desire”—that “many” may be meant By the fool multitude that choose by show, Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach; Which pries not to th' interior, but like the martlet Builds in the weather on the outward wall, Even in the force and road of casualty.
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand, and ’tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
Tis monstrous.
Iago keeps his word.
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye, The day to cheer and night’s dank dew to dry, I must upfill this osier cage of ours With baleful weeds and precious-juicèd flowers.
Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight.
This casket threatens.
This is no place, this house is but a butchery.
She says you have some goodly jest in hand.
Where is he?
Two of them have the very bent of honor, And if their wisdoms be misled in this, The practice of it lives in John the Bastard, Whose spirits toil in frame of villainies.
Antonio.

To show an unfelt sorrow is an office Which the false man does easy.
King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en.
A mighty man of Pisa.
I will, my lord.
Would none but I might venge my cousin’s death!
Is ’t possible?
With lawyers in the vacation, for they sleep between term and term, and then they perceive not how time moves. 
Let’s see these pockets.
He shall enlarge him.
But she, your subject, loathes such sovereignty.
Our posts shall be swift and intelligent betwixt us.—Farewell, dear sister.
But for a fine, quaint, graceful, and excellent fashion, yours is worth ten on ’t.
False to me?
Cassius, go you into the other street And part the numbers.
O, that thou wert not, poor distressèd soul!
He that commends me to mine own content Commends me to the thing I cannot get.
This quarry cries on havoc.
O braggart vile and damnèd furious wight, The grave doth gape, and doting death is near.
Come, seek the conspirators.
Let us toward the king.
For besides these beneficial news, it is the celebration of his nuptial.
Sin from thy lips?
He lies to th' heart.
The gods defend him from so great a shame!
Where am I?
I serve the king, On whose employment I was sent to you.
Brought you Caesar home?
I have slept, my lord, already.
Fool, of thyself speak well.
I love thee not.
God keep you from them, and from such false friends.
You’re fall’n into a princely hand.
Let your wedding be tomorrow.
Tis no time to play now.
I am to blame.
I know him well.
Tut, fear not me.
Prithee, friend, Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear, The good and bad together.
Still you keep o' the windy side of the law.
Highest queen of state, Great Juno, comes.
There’s a division betwixt the dukes.
So let high-sighted tyranny range on Till each man drop by lottery.
So is Lysander.
My lord, he’s going to his mother’s closet.
I will unto Venice To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding day.
But now, I tell thee—keep it to thyself— This day those enemies are put to death, And I in better state than e'er I was.
But heavenly Rosalind!
O rude unthankfulness!
How canst thou make me satisfaction?
When the butt is out, we will drink water.
But where’s my fool?
Didst thou give all to thy two daughters, and art thou come to this?
I must perforce.
 it’s yours, it’s mine, and it’ll belong to thousands more.
Tis a good hand, A frank one.
Well, I have done.
No boasting like a fool.
Your sister is the better soldier.
The patch is kind enough, but a huge feeder, Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day More than the wildcat.
Besides, she uses me with a more exalted respect than anyone else that follows her.
What was the last cry for?
Now I perceive they have conjoined all three To fashion this false sport, in spite of me.— Injurious Hermia!
If she live long, And in the end meet the old course of death, Women will all turn monsters.
Return you to my sister.
O Cassius, Far from this country Pindarus shall run, Where never Roman shall take note of him.
Nor I, my lord.
Had you such leisure in the time of death To gaze upon the secrets of the deep?
Who you are and what you would are out of my welkin, I might say “element,” but the word is overworn. 
Thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies In motion of no less celerity Than that of thought.
As sweet repose and rest Come to thy heart as that within my breast.
Methought their souls whose bodies Richard murdered Came to my tent and cried on victory.
Tis even so.
 have you ever seen her holding a handkerchief with an embroidered strawberry pattern on it?
Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
Alas, that they are so, To die even when they to perfection grow!
Yet would not so have been, Durst I have done my will.
So it appears by that I have to say.
A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the king.
Show.
No doubt the murd'rous knife was dull and blunt Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart, To revel in the entrails of my lambs.
Some innocents ’scape not the thunderbolt.
The rest shall keep as they are.
The better for the King of heaven that hath him.
Ere the bat hath flown His cloistered flight, ere to black Hecate’s summons The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums Hath rung night’s yawning peal, there shall be done A deed of dreadful note.
 as long as a person tells me the truth, even though it means my death, I will listen as though he praised me.
For him, I think not on him.
Ha?
Forever and a day.
But on thy side I may not be too forward, Lest, being seen, thy brother, tender George, Be executed in his father’s sight.
Saw who?
Come, Nerissa.—
Can Fulvia die?
I will leave him.
Nay, he rubs himself with civet.
Ay, so please your Majesty.
I will do everything that thou wilt have me.
O Fates, come, come, Cut thread and thrum.
Mercutio, thou consort’st with Romeo.
What’s his fault?
 “Here lives Benedick the married man”?
Prithee, away.
I must Once in a month recount what thou hast been, Which thou forget’st.
Make me a willow cabin at your gate And call upon my soul within the house.
Why, then, some be of laughing, as, ah, ha, he!
O, sir, I will not be so hard-hearted.
There’s a time for all things.
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight and could not Endure a further view.
Yet am I noble as the adversary I come to cope withal.
Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!
Draw, you rascal.
Go fetch My best attires.
By your patience, I needs must rest me.
I say amen, Gonzalo.
The manner of their deaths?
His excellence did earn it, ere he had it.
Follow me.
He is a gentleman of a good house, and for his ransom he will give you two hundred crowns.
What say you?
Foul, wrinkled witch, what mak’st thou in my sight?
And therefore ’tis called a sensible tale.
Heaven keep the monster from Othello’s mind!
Here’s to thee, Menas!
The count himself here hard by woos her.
Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard.
Suffolk first died, and York, all haggled over, Comes to him where in gore he lay insteeped And takes him by the beard, kisses the gashes That bloodily did yawn upon his face.
What, is my beaver easier than it was?
Close by, my master.
The duke is humorous.
I am for the air.
What means this lady?
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
And so, with no money at all and a little more wit, return again to Venice.
Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
Send for him, good uncle.
I’ll mark the play.
Nay, I care not for their names.
Another Hero!
Let us take the law of our sides.
You have lost no reputation at all unless you repute yourself such a loser.
Therefore to our best mercy give yourselves Or, like to men proud of destruction, Defy us to our worst.
Why then, you are in love.
It is no matter.
Fie upon “But yet.” “But yet” is as a jailer to bring forth Some monstrous malefactor.
I owe you much, and, like a willful youth, That which I owe is lost.
Come, where’s the chain?
Had my lips that power, Thus would I wear them out.
What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
Lady, will you walk a bout with your friend?
It is good for your green wound and your ploody coxcomb.
I am desperate of my fortunes if they check me.
Villain am I none.
Now civil wounds are stopped, peace lives again.
Oh, ’tis foul in her.
God’s bread!
Come, Dromio, come, these jests are out of season.
Tis a worthy governor.
Welcome, ass.
Nothing, but this is so.
No more, I pray thee.
You are resolute, then?
With an eye of green in ’t.
Liar and slave!
But I am much to blame.
Is that my prize?
And that’s true too.
For my brother, I think he holds you well, and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage—surely suit ill spent and labor ill bestowed.
If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monument than the bell rings and the widow weeps.
Before my God, I might not this believe Without the sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes.
Our separated fortune Shall keep us both the safer.
A more unhappy lady, If this division chance, ne’er stood between, Praying for both parts.
Nay, it is true, or else I am a Turk.
You are there followed by a faithful shepherd.
Th' exchange of thy love’s faithful vow for mine.
O, yes, my lord, but very idle words.
Nothing.
Why, there, there, there, there!
I am much afeard my lady his mother played false with a smith.
What, did Caesar swoon?
Unmerciful lady as you are, I’m none.
What!
See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
Are not these woods More free from peril than the envious court?
What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wildfowl?
I have made no fault.
If it be so, as ’tis, Poor lady, she were better love a dream.
O holy Friar, O, tell me, holy Friar, Where is my lady’s lord?
If any bark put forth, come to the mart, Where I will walk till thou return to me.
Thou dost thy office fairly.
I found them on a tree.
Will your grace command me any service to the world’s end?
Bid her come hither.
You know not Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
Do you think I’ll be forsworn?
Come, how wouldst thou praise me?
Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
All may be well; but if God sort it so, 'Tis more than we deserve or I expect.
Not know my voice!
No, ’tis not so deep as a well nor so wide as a church-door, but ’tis enough, ’twill serve.
Fate, show thy force.
You must not stay here longer.
And shall I couple hell?
Remember what I have said.
Fie, how my bones ache!
Lord Hamlet— Heaven secure him!
 if you kill me, boy, you’ll have killed a man.
For Lord Hamlet, Believe so much in him that he is young, And with a larger tether may he walk Than may be given you.
We will persuade him, be it possible, To put on better ere he go to church.
The King of Naples, being an enemy To me inveterate, hearkens my brother’s suit, Which was that he, in lieu o' th' premises Of homage and I know not how much tribute, Should presently extirpate me and mine Out of the dukedom, and confer fair Milan With all the honors on my brother.
Let’s meet him and receive him.
I have well approved it, sir.
They must take it in sense that feel it.
Hold, take thou that and that.
He leads himself.
Do, I prithee, but yet have the grace to consider that tears do not become a man.
Leonato, stand I here?
Gilded tombs do worms enfold.
I humbly do beseech you of your pardon For too much loving you.
Some god direct my judgment!
And why, sir, must they so?
Yes.
Tomorrow is the day.
Wrench his sword from him.
I am very glad to see you.
Your goods that lay at host, sir, in the Centaur.
Life, living, all is Death’s.
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Legged like a man and his fins like arms!
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
Wert thou not banishèd on pain of death?
Yet the gold bides still That others touch, and often touching will Wear gold; yet no man that hath a name By falsehood and corruption doth it shame.
Either thou, Macbeth, Or else my sword with an unbattered edge I sheathe again undeeded.
How many then should cover that stand bare!
Ah, let be, let be!
As thick as tale Can post with post, and every one did bear Thy praises in his kingdom’s great defense, And poured them down before him.
What says that fool of Hagar’s offspring, ha?
It must be by his death, and for my part I know no personal cause to spurn at him But for the general.
Belike some noble gentleman that means, Traveling some journey, to repose him here.
What, is the jay more precious than the lark Because his feathers are more beautiful?
One word more Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee.
Cry but “Ay me!” Pronounce but “love” and “dove.” Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word, One nickname for her purblind son and heir, Young Abraham Cupid, he that shot so true When King Cophetua loved the beggar maid.— He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not.
Upon a lie seven times removed.—Bear your body more seeming, Audrey.—As thus, sir
Farewell, farewell.
 those who sent you to do this deed will hate you for doing it.
And so they parted.
Not too fast!
Woe, alas!
Beshrew his soul for me!
So would not I.
I have much to do But to go hang my head all at one side And sing it like poor Barbary.
Halfway down Hangs one that gathers samphire—dreadful trade!
Naught that I am, Not for their own demerits, but for mine, Fell slaughter on their souls.
My wayward husband hath a hundred times
Call the clotpoll back.
Why, Dromio?
 that he beat you and pretended his house wasn’t his and I wasn’t his wife.
Here, madam, at your service.
If any ship put out, then straight away.
So that, conclusions to be as kisses, if your four negatives make your two affirmatives, why then the worse for my friends and the better for my foes.
Approach, my Ariel, come.
They are, my lord.
What villain, madam?
At the duke’s oak we meet.
Bid that welcome Which comes to punish us, and we punish it, Seeming to bear it lightly.
Why, no.
 Leonato’s Hero, your Hero, every man’s Hero.
O Kate, nice customs curtsy to great kings.
I have more cause.
Hold, or cut bowstrings.
Antony only, that would make his will Lord of his reason.
A lantern, slaughtered youth, For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes This vault a feasting presence full of light.
Who’s here?
But how, but how?
Who’s there?  
Nay, I am sure it is, Volumnius.
They are incensed.
Not I, unless the breath of heartsick groans, Mistlike, infold me from the search of eyes.
We should profane the service of the dead To sing a requiem and such rest to her As to peace-parted souls.
Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit Commits itself to yours to be directed As from her lord, her governor, her king.
What ho, Horatio!
How!
Sir, I say to you we are none.
Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her, and her will is it should be so returned.
But shall I live in hope?
I do not like the office.
What manner of man?
Turn thee back, And tell thy king I do not seek him now But could be willing to march on to Calais Without impeachment, for, to say the sooth, Though ’tis no wisdom to confess so much Unto an enemy of craft and vantage, My people are with sickness much enfeebled, My numbers lessened, and those few I have Almost no better than so many French, Who when they were in health, I tell thee, herald, I thought upon one pair of English legs Did march three Frenchmen.
You’ve said, sir.
Were you by when it began?
But Macbeth is.
I pray thee, hear me speak.
You were best go in.
Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks.
You are a fool.—You, niece, provide yourself.
I’ll never see ’t!
I am unfit for state and majesty.
The most exquisite Claudio?
I know not that, when he knows what I know.
Why, what an intricate impeach is this!
Go get him surgeons.
Still so cruel?
Not very well, but I have met him oft, And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds That the old carlot once was master of.
Did he receive you well?
Remember our reward when the deed’s done.
I think he brings the money.
We had much more monstrous matter of feast, which worthily deserved noting.
I said thou hadst a fine wit.
An I had been a man of any occupation, if I would not have taken him at a word, I would I might go to hell among the rogues.
Besides, in mercy, The constable desires thee thou wilt mind Thy followers of repentance, that their souls May make a peaceful and a sweet retire From off these fields where, wretches, their poor bodies Must lie and fester.
And, pretty fool, it stinted and said “ay.” Enough of this.
O Stephano, two Neapolitans ’scaped!
Our fortune on the sea is out of breath And sinks most lamentably.
That’s a fault.
He did in some sort, indeed, handle women, but then he was rheumatic, and talked of the Whore of Babylon.
O Lord, I must laugh.
A gentle riddance.—Draw the curtains, go.— Let all of his complexion choose me so.
What tidings can you tell me of my lord?
He was disposed to mirth, but on the sudden A Roman thought hath struck him.—Enobarbus!
Yes, my conscience, He did us great good.
Ay, madam.
None but a holy hermit and her maid.
What a man are you?
A lord to a lord, a man to a man, stuffed with all honorable virtues.
Write me a prologue, and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm with our swords, and that Pyramus is not killed indeed.
Thy spirits are most tall.
And what confederacy have you with the traitors Late footed in the kingdom?
All ports I’ll bar.
I told him what I thought, and told no more Than what he found himself was apt and true.
Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me.
I only speak right on.
If by your art, my dearest father, you have Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
Was not that Cassio parted from my wife?
And when that time comes, Afflict me with thy mocks, pity me not, As till that time I shall not pity thee.
The fiend is rough and will not be roughly used.
I do know him by his gait.
Nay, hear him.
Here comes my man.
A plague upon the tyrant that I serve!
Where got’st thou that goose look?
A plague upon this howling!
Are they not now upon the western shore, Safe-conducting the rebels from their ships?
The French have reinforced their scattered men.
Give him tending.
Be of good cheer, youth.
What, will you murder me?—Thou jailer, thou, I am thy prisoner.
Fie, that you’ll say so!
I thank thee, good Tubal.
Look, and thou shalt see.
So many miseries have crazed my voice That my woe-wearied tongue is still and mute.
Tis all one.
I cannot tell.
Is there more toil?
Didst thou not hear somebody?
Is the king stirring, worthy thane?
Come on, assay.
Content.
Much is breeding  Which, like the courser’s hair, hath yet but life, And not a serpent’s poison.
I am content.
I will expect you.
Where is he gone?
Ay, ’tis strong, and it does indifferent well in a dun-colored stock.
What profane wretch art thou?
Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber.
I think he will stand very strong with us.
Here, sirrah Grumio.
Let us not break with him, For he will never follow anything That other men begin.
What is it ye would see?
His lecture will be done ere you have tuned.
Off, pluck off!
Come down.
The pound of flesh which I demand of him Is dearly bought.
Thou hast amazed me.
Dost thou say so?
Yet but three?
Many a man would take you at your word And go indeed, having so good a mean.
O heavy deed!
O noble Caesar!
But let me to my fortune and the caskets.
You sunburnt sicklemen of August weary, Come hither from the furrow and be merry.
Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak, And speak I will.
I speak no treason.
Another way I have to man my haggard, To make her come and know her keeper’s call.
Why, that was he.
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
If we do meet again, why, we shall smile.
My old bones ache.
Is he married?
What is that noise?
What wilt thou tell her, Nurse?
Tarry, Jew.
Do, do.
I have a head, sir, that will find out logs, And never trouble Peter for the matter.
Why, so didst thou.
Did you and he consent in Cassio’s death?
Master, master, look about you.
It ish give over.
A thousand, sir, Early though ’t be, have on their riveted trim And at the port expect you.
Only th’ adulterous Antony, most large In his abominations, turns you off And gives his potent regiment to a trull That noises it against us.
Belike for want of rain, which I could well Beteem them from the tempest of my eyes.
He looks gentler than he did.
Mistress, how mean you that?
Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right her!
Poor heart, adieu.
You come most carefully upon your hour.
Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner he would not.
I prithee, recount some of them.
Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers.
So that in these ten thousand they have lost, There are but sixteen hundred mercenaries.
Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!
I cannot tell.
I have an exposition of sleep come upon me.
Didst thou not kill this king?
It is the greatest admiration in the universal world when the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the wars is not kept.
I here take my oath before this honorable assembly, she kicked the poor king her father.
There’s money for your pains.
O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence, railed at herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout her.
I’ll unhair thy head!
I heard nothing.
And what of him?
She’s a most triumphant lady, if report be square to her.
For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar’s angel.
Utter my thoughts?
And we understand him well, How he comes o'er us with our wilder days, Not measuring what use we made of them.
Oh, villain that I am!
Would all were well—but that will never be.
We’ll revenge his death.
If swift thought break it not, a swifter mean Shall outstrike thought, but thought will do ’t, I feel.
I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it, On Thursday next be married to this county.
I shall do my friends no wrong, for I have none to lament me; the world no injury, for in it I have nothing.
Yet if you there Did practice on my state, your being in Egypt Might be my question.
Observe how Antony becomes his flaw, And what thou think’st his very action speaks In every power that moves.
I cannot tell wat is dat.
That handkerchief thou speak’st of I found by fortune and did give my husband.
Run away, I pray you!
I am but mad north-north-west.
Nor no man else.
I pray thee, overname them.
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.
Bring her to try wi' th' main course.
Nay, get thee gone.
Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe, Will furnish me.
It is so.
How now, my pretty knave?
And here’s a marvelous convenient place for our rehearsal.
Say either, and I’ll stay the circumstance.
I’ll halt after.
You see me here, you gods, a poor old man, As full of grief as age, wretched in both.
He’s a conspirator.
Nay, I pray you let me go.
Pardon me, sweet one, even for the vows We made each other but so late ago.
O my son, my son!
Over thy wounds now do I prophesy— Which, like dumb mouths, do ope their ruby lips To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue— A curse shall light upon the limbs of men.
Farewell.
How will you live?
Twill be a storm.
Yea, but so I am apt to do myself wrong.
O inhuman dog!
And as I say, retire with me to my lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to hear my lord speak.
The skin is good for your broken coxcomb.
All this is comfort.
A love song, a love song.
And you by land.
Perdie, your doors were locked, and you shut out.
Consent to swear.
Yes, you have seen Cassio and she together.
I am sorry to find you thus.
Cicero one?
My spirits are nimble.
Well I know the man.
Consider how it stands upon my credit.
Thou hast me, if thou hast me, at the worst, and thou shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and better.
He’ll but break a comparison or two on me, which, peradventure not marked or not laughed at, strikes him into melancholy, and then there’s a partridge wing saved, for the fool will eat no supper that night.
What’s the matter?
Cast thy humble slough,” says she.
Of what color?
Give me some little breath, some pause, dear lord, Before I positively speak in this.
I see, sir, you are liberal in offers.
Bleed, bleed, poor country!
All other devils that suggest by treasons Do botch and bungle up damnation With patches, colors, and with forms being fetched From glist'ring semblances of piety.
For what purpose, love?
Till I shall see you in your soldiers’ dress, Which will become you both, farewell.
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words, Brags of his substance, not of ornament.
This is as uncivil as strange.
If you will let your lady know I am here to speak with her, and bring her along with you, it may awake my bounty further.
Good heaven, the souls of all my tribe defend From jealousy!
That same villain, Romeo.
This is the motley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in the forest.
And from henceforth When you are over-earnest with your Brutus, He’ll think your mother chides and leave you so.
From Silvius, sir.
We’ll beat ’em into bench-holes.
For mine own part, no offence to the general nor any man of quality, I hope to be saved.
What is the reason of this terrible summons?
But what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed, one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?
For your father’s remembrance, be at accord.
Their shadows seem A canopy most fatal, under which Our army lies, ready to give up the ghost.
Ha, it may be I go under that title because I am merry.
He is of note.
Hark.
Thou shalt be lord of it and I’ll serve thee.
How now, interjections?
What, are they children?
Or did I dream it so?
As proper men as ever trod upon neat’s leather have gone upon my handiwork.
Do you find some occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking too loud, or tainting his discipline, or from what other course you please, which the time shall more favorably minister.
Good lads, how do you both?
Ay, good my lord.
He will not say so.
Tell us what hath chanced today That Caesar looks so sad.
A poor unfortunate beggar.
I will to Venice.
Where is the number of our English dead?
Do thy office.
Forever and forever farewell, Brutus.
O sir, very well
She has light by her continually.
You charge me most unjustly.
As good a gentleman as the emperor.
Farewell, thou lob of spirits.
A pestilent gall to me!
I tell thee, Constable, my mistress wears his own hair.
Come, my lord, and in our flight Tell me how it came this night That I sleeping here was found With these mortals on the ground.
Now, sweet lord, You know the goodness I intend upon you.
Tonight she is mewed up to her heaviness.
It hath been taught us from the primal state That he which is was wished until he were, And the ebbed man, ne’er loved till ne’er worth love, Comes deared by being lacked.
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Shall I say to Caesar What you require of him?
Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing.
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill Of this day’s journey, and from nine till twelve Is three long hours, yet she is not come.
If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes.
A most poor man made tame to fortune’s blows, Who by the art of known and feeling sorrows Am pregnant to good pity.
I swear by that which I will lose for thee To prove him false that says I love thee not.
Ceres, most bounteous lady, thy rich leas Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats, and peas; Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep, And flat meads thatched with stover, them to keep; Thy banks with pionèd and twillèd brims,
Speak to him.
Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness; sluttishness may come hereafter.
Sweetly in force unto her fair life’s end.
 “Should I make myself at home?”  
Well, let them rest.—Come hither, Catesby.
O, if thou wert the noblest of thy strain, Young man, thou couldst not die more honorable.
What of that?
Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
My sovereign lord, I do beseech your Highness To take our brother Clarence to your grace.
Thou shalt be loggerhead.—Good faith, ’tis day.
Pardon me, dear Rosalind.
Thou shouldst be honest.
Madam, here comes my lord.
Is he not honest?
What’s a drunken man like, fool?
My soul, and not my child!
Never at quiet.
Use me well.
Monster, I do smell all horse piss, at which my nose is in great indignation.
Give me thy hand.
Alas, he faints!
I think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them together.
There’s a bargain made.
What, is Brutus sick, And will he steal out of his wholesome bed, To dare the vile contagion of the night And tempt the rheumy and unpurgèd air To add unto his sickness?
What say the augurers?
Monsieur the challenger, the Princess calls for you.
Hence, be gone, away!
He is in earnest.
Oh, by this count I shall be much in years Ere I again behold my Romeo.
Quickly send— Be brief in it—to th' castle, for my writ Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia.
Urchins Shall, forth at vast of night that they may work, All exercise on thee.
Sir!
This is all.
Good e'en, good e'en.
I pray you, father, being weak, seem so.
Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
Let’s carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds.
Ah, thou spell!
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is—
No, he doth but mistake the truth totally.
Let good Antonio look he keep his day, Or he shall pay for this.
And bid her come hither.
And yesterday the bird of night did sit Even at noon-day upon the marketplace, Hooting and shrieking.
O brave touch!
Presently away, For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.— Come, lady, die to live.
Never did I know A creature that did bear the shape of man So keen and greedy to confound a man.
Pluck but his name out of his heart and turn him going.
Macbeth doth come.
Tybalt’s death Was woe enough, if it had ended there.
Give you good morrow.
Let us seek out some desolate shade and there Weep our sad bosoms empty.
He, of all the men that ever my foolish eyes looked upon, was the best deserving a fair lady.
I have known when there was no music with him but the drum and the fife, and now had he rather hear the tabor and the pipe.
Ay, those attires are best.
Will you let it fall?
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
Stay but a little.
Let your highness Command upon me, to the which my duties Are with a most indissoluble tie Forever knit.
It is no shame.
Sweet marjoram.
He lives that loves thee better than he could.
Now sits the wind fair, and we will aboard.
Hearty thanks.
What are these faces?
What three things does drink especially provoke?
This making Christians will raise the price of hogs.
Out on her, hilding!
And how like you this shepherd’s life, Master Touchstone?
It cannot be.
Their hands and faces were all badged with blood.
Thence I have followed it, Or it hath drawn me rather.
Wilt thou suffer them To make a rescue?
At sea, I think.
Now, by the holy mother of our Lord, The citizens are mum, say not a word.
Give me my sword.
We must be patient, but I cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him i' th' cold ground.
He longs to eat the English.
Why, give it to my wife, and fetch your money.
When our actions do not, Our fears do make us traitors.
Hark, now I hear them.
Let not the Nurse lie with thee in thy chamber.
Farewell, my lord.
I will chop her into messes!
They sit conferring by the parlor fire.
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news By playing it to me with so sour a face.
Well, more anon.—Comes the king forth, I pray you?
Why, then he’ll say we stabbed him sleeping.
I am content.
I am not taught to make anything.
I am bound to thee forever.
Or I’ll deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth. 
Tis some mischance, the cry is very direful.
Fie, fie!
Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self, Which is the god of my idolatry, And I’ll believe thee.
Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
The adventurous knight shall use his foil and target, the lover shall not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his part in peace, the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o' th' sear, and the lady shall say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt for ’t.
You must bear with me.
Had I but died an hour before this chance, I had lived a blessèd time, for from this instant There’s nothing serious in mortality.
With his mouth full of news.
Moreover, he hath left you all his walks, His private arbors and new-planted orchards, On this side Tiber.
I’ll call upon you straight.
Content you, gentlemen.
Tis not to me she speaks.
Was that done like Cassius?
 first, we came down a steep hill, my master riding behind my mistress— Both on one horse?
Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
Do not deny to him that you love me.
Give me those flowers.
Thou hast described A hot friend cooling.
Company is coming here.
The food that to him now is as luscious as locusts shall be to him shortly as bitter as coloquintida.
Go after her.
Poor I am but his stale.
Hast any philosophy in thee, shepherd? 
The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
Lay hand on heart, advise.
And one Deformed is one of them.
Indeed, I should have asked thee that before.
Nor what I have done by water.
An I might live to see thee married once, I have my wish.
Not a false gallop.
I did her wrong— Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell?
I will bite my thumb at them, which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.
I ne'er saw this before.
Here’s his dry hand up and down.
Twas this flesh begot Those pelican daughters.
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
She should have died hereafter.
Brother, I’ll go and bring it thee.
Cleopatra, Do not abuse my master’s bounty by Th’ undoing of yourself.
Bid him Report the feature of Octavia
Go, bind this man, for he is frantic too.
He that sweetest rose will find Must find love’s prick, and Rosalind.
No pains, sir.
What, are we cuckolds ere we have deserved it?
She’s but the sign and semblance of her honor.
Sir, Mark Antony Will e’en but kiss Octavia, and we’ll follow.
I have more care to stay than will to go.
What an eye she has!
Art thou thus boldened, man, by thy distress Or else a rude despiser of good manners, That in civility thou seem’st so empty?
They, for their truth, might better wear their heads Than some that have accused them wear their hats.
He holds me well.
Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord.
Why dost thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in a coranto?
I’ll bury thee in a triumphant grave.
Your charm so strongly works 'em That if you now beheld them, your affections Would become tender.
Here, here!
Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
The more fool you for laying on my duty.
Whip me, ye devils, From the possession of this heavenly sight!
God hath blessed you with a good name.
Then, if they die unprovided, no more is the king guilty of their damnation than he was before guilty of those impieties for the which they are now visited.
My name is Proculeius.
A most manly wit, Margaret, it will not hurt a woman.
What will you give us?
What are you?
Should I lie, madam?
But you and I And honest Casca, we have the falling sickness.
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes That shapes this monstrous apparition.
This hand of yours requires A sequester from liberty, fasting, and prayer,
No, but she let it drop by negligence And, to th' advantage, I being here, took ’t up.
Let me have audience for a word or two.
Simple, plain Clarence, I do love thee so That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven, If heaven will take the present at our hands.
Upon what bargain do you give it me?
Perchance 'Twill walk again.
You told me so.
He forbids it, Being free from vainness and self-glorious pride, Giving full trophy, signal, and ostent Quite from himself, to God.
Hold, for shame!
Bade him anon return and here speak with me, The which he promised.
You are very welcome, sir.
Go, you wild bedfellow, you cannot soothsay.
Was ’t you that did so oft contrive to kill him?
Tis figured in my tongue.
It were, my lord, a hard condition for a maid to consign to.
What, Lucius!
Have patience and endure.
Cassio knows you not.
I shall deliver so.
Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me?
What’s that, I pray?
More to know Did never meddle with my thoughts.
O, but one word.
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow’s shadow.
Will you hear the letter?
Fare you well. 
Sooth, la, I’ll help.
Kill men i' th' dark!
Both your majesties Might, by the sovereign power you have of us, Put your dread pleasures more into command Than to entreaty.
And so doth mine.
O, ’twas the foulest deed to slay that babe, And the most merciless that e'er was heard of!
But will you woo this wildcat?
Who can be wise, amazed, temp'rate, and furious, Loyal and neutral, in a moment?
Call her forth to me.
You English princes all, I do salute you.
Why, what is Tybalt?
Here, here comes Master Signior Leonato, and the Sexton too.
Sir, I will answer any thing.
You have dancing shoes With nimble soles.
But next day I told him of myself, which was as much As to have asked him pardon.
Dost thou understand me, man?
In the great hand of God I stand, and thence Against the undivulged pretense I fight Of treasonous malice.
You know me well.
The crowner hath sat on her and finds it Christian burial.
True, my good boy.—Come, bring us to this hovel.
My master is the great rich Capulet, and if you be not of the house of Montagues, I pray come and crush a cup of wine.
Villain, thou didst deny the gold’s receipt And told’st me of a mistress and a dinner, For which, I hope, thou felt’st I was displeased.
What, wilt thou flout me thus unto my face, Being forbid?
I am even The natural fool of fortune.
If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear it were his.
Naughty lady, These hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin Will quicken and accuse thee.
Why then, let fall Your horrible pleasure.
Let me see the caper.
Leonato and his brother.
I’ll drain him dry as hay.
Do not desire to see this letter.
What it should be, More than his father’s death, that thus hath put him So much from th' understanding of himself, I cannot dream of.
Our masquing mates by this time for us stay.
Why, all these should be in the lanthorn, for all these are in the moon.—But silence!
Well then, it now appears you need my help.
Therefore weep.
And so we will, provided that he win her.
Then hear me, gracious sovereign, and you peers That owe yourselves, your lives, and services To this imperial throne.
How fares my lord?
I will not choose what many men desire Because I will not jump with common spirits And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.
O bosom black as death!
And will you, being a man of your breeding, be married under a bush like a beggar?
Madam?
O my follies!
What committed?
What, will you not suffer me?
They met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together.
Who calls?
Good love, call him back.
Didst thou dream, Lucius, that thou so criedst out?
Desire him to go in.
Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason for that.
Which way ran he that killed Mercutio?
No, sir, I live by the church.
Oh, I am out of breath in this fond chase.
But yet I cannot love him; He might have took his answer long ago.
I may command where I adore, But silence, like a Lucrece knife, With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore; M.O.A.I.
Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords.
After her, after her.
Draw that thy honest sword, which thou hast worn Most useful for thy country.
Wrong I mine enemies?
No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon curs.
Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word Macduff is fled to England.
Defend thee!
So is the bargain.
Wherefore are these things hid?
Thou strik’st not me, ’tis Caesar thou defeat’st.
This is a slight, unmeritable man, Meet to be sent on errands.
I cannot blame her.
I cannot go to, man, nor ’tis not very well.
Tis he, that villain Romeo.
All the East, Say thou, shall call her mistress.” So he nodded, And soberly did mount an arm-gaunt steed, Who neighed so high that what I would have spoke Was beastly dumbed by him.
Was that mine?
Or as ’twere perfumed by a fen.
Or be alive again, And dare me to the desert with thy sword.
I am Grumio’s pledge.
Which be the malefactors?
Hover about her; say that right for right Hath dimmed your infant morn to agèd night.
Take in your love, and then let me alone.
Do as I bid thee.
I will dispatch it straight.
The earth hath bubbles, as the water has, And these are of them.
Why, at her father’s.
Is that the law?
Tell me why.
They would be better if well followed.
Why dost thou use me thus?
He will find it comes from a clodpole.
Who is here so base that would be a bondman?
My lord, the roinish clown, at whom so oft Your Grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.
Or blessè was ’t we did?
The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives, With blearèd visages come forth to view The issue of th' exploit.—Go, Hercules!
Edward Plantagenet, why art thou dead?
Pardon, dear father.
We waste our lights in vain, like lights by day.
Come, let me wipe thy face.
Triple-turned whore!
You’ll have coursers for cousins and gennets for germans.
Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell.
Where is the evidence that doth accuse me?
Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love.
By Jacob’s staff, I swear, I have no mind of feasting forth tonight.
No, no, I am as ugly as a bear, For beasts that meet me run away for fear.
Ay, but not enough.
My lord, his throat is cut.
And now I’ll do ’t.
Ay, amen!
Well held out, i' faith.
I pray you, choose another subject.
I hear some noise.
You shall not stir out of your house today.
I am not in a sportive humor now.
Tis twenty year till then.
I’ll go with you.
I’ll be thy second.
Here’s that shall drive some of them to a noncome.
What though I be not so in grace as you— So hung upon with love, so fortunate— But miserable most, to love unloved?
Nothing, madam.
Why have you stol’n upon us thus?
The king is not bound to answer the particular endings of his soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of his servant, for they purpose not their death, when they purpose their services.
Will you come presently?
Who comes with him?
Ay, marry, what is he?
Oh, my pardon!
I’ll leave thee Now like a man of steel.
Thy Fates open their hands.
Nay, hear them, Antony.
Your features, Lord warrant us!
I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Caesar, And things unlucky charge my fantasy.
To whom in all this presence speaks your Grace?
Not yet quite dead?
The rarer action is In virtue than in vengeance.
Till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane I cannot taint with fear.
So that, as clear as is the summer’s sun, King Pepin’s title and Hugh Capet’s claim, King Lewis his satisfaction, all appear To hold in right and title of the female.
Tell him so yourself, And see how he will take it at your hands.
You hear him all night.
Ay, but not rough enough.
If that you were the good Sir Rowland’s son, As you have whispered faithfully you were, And as mine eye doth his effigies witness Most truly limned and living in your face, Be truly welcome hither.
My lord and lady, it is now our time, That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper, To cry, “Good joy, good joy, my lord and lady!” My Lord Bassanio and my gentle lady, I wish you all the joy that you can wish, For I am sure you can wish none from me.
Ho, now you strike like the blind man.
I hope you will consider what is spoke Comes from my love.
A friend should bear his friend’s infirmities, But Brutus makes mine greater than they are.
So call the field to rest, and let’s away To part the glories of this happy day.
Come, brands, ho, firebrands.
Fair lovers, you are fortunately met.
I mean, she is the list of my voyage.
Tranio hits you now.
It would be spoke to.
I am content you shall entreat me stay, But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.
The business of the state does him offence, And he does chide with you.
He cannot speak, my lord.
Your crown’s awry.
By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
Where is thy instrument?
Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir.
What, my dear Lady Disdain!
Call in the messengers.
He shall live a man forbid.
Stand away, Captain Gower.
Pray ye, sir?
O!
There’s my key.
What is Thisbe?
Thy business?
Now forth, Lord Constable and princes all, And quickly bring us word of England’s fall.
Fly, fly, my lord.
Himself.
Their villainy goes against my weak stomach, and therefore I must cast it up. 
And in their ship I am sure Lorenzo is not.
Arise, and say how thou camest here.
 “He who chooses me will get what many men want.” That’s Portia!
Death lies on her like an untimely frost Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
Ay, millstones, as he lessoned us to weep.
Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
Fare-well.
I shall offend, either to detain or give it.
But do not so.
Let me go, I say.
Hark, hark!
Who’s there?
Good morrow to you.
Pitchers have ears.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord, With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
But chiefly Him that you termed, sir, “the good old Lord Gonzalo,” His tears run down his beard like winter’s drops From eaves of reeds.
O Antony, beg not your death of us.
They did, Fluellen.
And so will I.
Well, heaven’s above all, and there be souls must be saved, and there be souls must not be saved.
Intelligence is given where you are hid.
Stay, dog, for thou shalt hear me.
Time travels in diverse paces with diverse persons.
Something, sure, of state, Either from Venice, or some unhatched practice Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him, Hath puddled his clear spirit, and in such cases Men’s natures wrangle with inferior things, Though great ones are their object.
Madam, his majesty doth call for you,— And for your Grace, —and yours, my gracious lords.
More wonderful, when angels are so angry.
At last, a little shaking of mine arm And thrice his head thus waving up and down, He raised a sigh so piteous and profound As it did seem to shatter all his bulk And end his being.
With all my heart, good youth.
In God’s name, speak.
Now, good sweet Nurse— O Lord, why look’st thou sad?
Didst thou not say he comes?
Strike, I say!
This a good block.
I know you are of her bosom.
I am not sick if Brutus have in hand Any exploit worthy the name of honor.
What’s your name?
Ay, truly, for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness.
Tis done already, and the messenger gone.
What a pied ninny’s this!—Thou scurvy patch!— I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows And take his bottle from him.
Trinculo, run into no further danger.
I remember.
Come, come, away.
Then there’s life in ’t.
By Jupiter, Were I the wearer of Antonio’s beard, I would not shave ’t today.
On, to the field!
Hast thou, spirit, Performed to point the tempest that I bade thee?
Your houses!
Miscreant!
Then, in the name of God and all these rights, Advance your standards.
He calls us back.
First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself, which the ladies cannot abide.
I will go along.
Caesar, my lord.
And badest me bury love.
Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight With a new Gorgon.
I will deliver you or else lie for you.
If a Christian do not play the knave and get thee, I am much deceived.
I think he be transformed into a beast, For I can nowhere find him like a man.
A lean cheek, which you have not; a blue eye and sunken, which you have not; an unquestionable spirit, which you have not; a beard neglected, which you have not—but I pardon you for that, for simply your having in beard is a younger brother’s revenue.
Swounds, show me what thou'lt do.
In Orsino’s bosom.
Good, good, the justice of it pleases!
Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil That makest my blood cold and my hair to stare?
Not so sick, my lord, As she is troubled with thick-coming fancies That keep her from her rest.
Most shallow man.
So rare a wondered father and a wife Makes this place paradise.
Look then to be well edified when the fool delivers the madman.
Go, get thee hence.
Not for thy fairy kingdom.—Fairies, away!
For his thoughts, Would they were blanks, rather than fill’d with me.
Those are the raisèd father and his friends.
You, you, ay, you!
Most excellent accomplished lady, the heavens rain odors on you!
A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile Martext.
Here, sir!” You loggerheaded and unpolished grooms!
Come, bring me unto my chance.
I’ll prove mine honor and mine honesty Against thee presently if thou dar’st stand.
But is there no sequel at the heels of this mother’s admiration?
Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays and all.
We will, my noble lord.
Your letters did withhold our breaking forth Till we perceived both how you were wrong led And we in negligent danger.
This to be true I do engage my life.
Thus losers part.
Antonio, I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino.
That is hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
How now, my love?
Grim-visaged war hath smoothed his wrinkled front; And now, instead of mounting barbèd steeds To fright the souls of fearful adversaries, He capers nimbly in a lady’s chamber To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
An if he be not fought withal, my lord, Let us not live in France.
Are they returned?
Richard loves Richard; that is, I and I.
And let the wise man fly.
The man that once did sell the lion’s skin While the beast lived was killed with hunting him.
A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch, Past speaking of in a king.
I found him under a tree like a dropped acorn.
What noise is this?—Not dead?
Your man and you are marvelous merry, sir.
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found Upon their pillows.
Good news, good news!
Read it instantly.
I am sorry that I am deceived in him.
Are you his brother?
All this amazement can I qualify When after that the holy rites are ended I’ll tell you largely of fair Hero’s death.
No, heavens forfend, I would not kill thy soul!
My sword is drawn.
I pray the gods she may, with all my heart!
Lend thine ear.
Am I myself?
This house is little.
Was ever man so 'rayed?
Who hath made this havoc with them?
Presently?
You mock me, sir.
Crystal is muddy.
Or to be naked with her friend in bed An hour or more, not meaning any harm?
Eyes, look your last.
Say on, my loving lord.
Cassio hath here been set on in the dark By Roderigo and fellows that are ’scaped.
Tis a point of wisdom.
How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport, That now on Pompey’s basis lies along No worthier than the dust!
Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes Between the pass and fell incensèd points Of mighty opposites.
She wished she had not heard it, yet she wished That heaven had made her such a man.
But who comes here?
So I do, madonna.
Helen, to you our minds we will unfold.
Thou hast braved many men; brave not me.
There would this monster make a man.
So I am free.
I will give him some relief if it be but for that.
My ships come home a month before the day.
Is ’t lost?
Patience, gentle Audrey.
Cassio shall have my place.
Go to, go to.
Why, know’st thou any harm’s intended towards him?
My charms crack not, my spirits obey, and time Goes upright with his carriage.
No, no, we will hold it as a dream till it appear itself.
Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.” And well said too—for who shall go about To cozen fortune and be honorable Without the stamp of merit?
I’ll wait upon your Lordship.
Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute?
Mistress, you must come away to your father.
She that makes dainty, She, I’ll swear, hath corns.
We will haste us.
Where’s Potpan, that he helps not to take away?
I will not stay tonight for all the town.
No, not a grize.
But no more sights!—Where are these gentlemen?
Good my mouse of virtue, answer me.
I have a widow aunt, a dowager Of great revenue, and she hath no child.
Thus hath the candle singed the moth.
But did you not request to have it cut?
I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
I warrant something from Venice.
I would not so much as make water but in a sink-a-pace.
Swear your love.
My lord, I did intend it.
Farewell, good Strato.
Let’s have no more of this, let’s to our affairs.—Forgive us our sins!—Gentlemen, let’s look to our business.
But I confess, sir, that we were locked out.
I speak too loud.— Where’s Malvolio?
Poor lady, she’ll run mad When she shall lack it.
Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
Death of one person can be paid but once, And that she has discharged.
She’s gone forever.
I say thy husband.
Come away.
Why hath thy queen Summoned me hither to this short-grassed green?
Tell me that.
My lord, for aught I know.
For my part, I am sorry it is turned to a drinking.
Let me lick thy shoe.
I alone will go.
And second father This lady makes him to me.
O, remember, God, To hear her prayer for them, as now for us!
Is it not like the king?
Master, some show to welcome us to town.
My name is Thidias.
To fetch my poor distracted husband hence.
I never gave him any.
Our wars are done, the Turks are drowned.
Teach it but how, And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
Not one, my lord.
Now heaven hath all,
Or is the adder better than the eel Because his painted skin contents the eye?
Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
I’ll about And drive away the vulgar from the streets.
Dear my lord, Make me acquainted with your cause of grief.
Well, sir.
What, have you writ that letter to my sister?
Truly, sir, to wear out their shoes to get myself into more work.
Is it so nominated in the bond?
O Thou, whose captain I account myself, Look on my forces with a gracious eye.
We see yonder the beginning of the day, but I think we shall never see the end of it.—Who goes there?
Nor for yours neither.
Why the wrong is but a wrong i' th' world, and having the world for your labor, ’tis a wrong in your own world, and you might quickly make it right.
Ha, ha, ha!
But shall we wear these glories for a day, Or shall they last and we rejoice in them?
There are some shrewd contents in yond same paper That steals the color from Bassanio’s cheek.
Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canst make No excuse current but to hang thyself.
My fool usurps my body.
Ready.
Indeed, that is out of the air.
What shall I know of thee?
My lord, the mayor of London comes to greet you.
Go with me to the duchess.
Make no compare Between that love a woman can bear me And that I owe Olivia.
Are you full of them?
I must embrace thee.
I’ll follow him no more with bootless prayers.
Dismount thy tuck, be yare in thy preparation, for thy assailant is quick, skillful and deadly.
And if on earth he do not merit it, In reason he should never come to heaven.
I stand for judgment.
In great measure.
Is ink and paper ready?
I prithee, who?
Two hundred ducats.
A merry whoreson, ha!
My name is Edgar, and thy father’s son.
Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
Besides, they all are fresh.
Whither should I fly?
Here are enemies.
But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born And hath been tutored in the rudiments Of many desperate studies by his uncle, Whom he reports to be a great magician Obscurèd in the circle of this forest.
This man said, sir, that Don John, the Prince’s brother, was a villain.
How shalt thou hope for mercy, rendering none?
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
I’ll give ’t him.
I left no ring with her.
Thy Edward he is dead, that killed my Edward, Thy other Edward dead, to quit my Edward; Young York, he is but boot, because both they Matched not the high perfection of my loss.
If her breath were as terrible as her terminations, there were no living near her; she would infect to the north star.
I have deceived even your very eyes.
I’ll pheeze you, in faith.
That will I, should I die the hour after.
Now, the next day Was our sea fight, and what to this was sequent Thou know’st already.
Play with your fancies and in them behold, Upon the hempen tackle, shipboys climbing.
About!
O, had the gods done so, I had not now Worthily termed them merciless to us.
Now is he for the numbers that Petrarch flowed in.
But brother Anthony—     Come, ’tis no matter.
Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex.
Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes.
I hear him.
A tomb Must cover thy sweet eyes.
O flesh, flesh, how art thou fishified!
For I have seen more years, I’m sure, than ye.
What is he at the gate, cousin?
But thine doth fry.
But it is no English treason to cut French crowns, and tomorrow the king himself will be a clipper. 
I can say little more than I have studied, and that question’s out of my part.
What, shall I groan and tell thee?
Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall aught?
But indeed an old religious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was in his youth an inland man, one that knew courtship too well, for there he fell in love.
All that glisters is not gold— Often have you heard that told.
We both have fed as well, and we can both Endure the winter’s cold as well as he.
The less they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
You shall not choose but drink before you go.
Sir John Falstaff.
Come, come.
I am a spirit of no common rate.
Hast thou forgot The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy Was grown into a hoop?
My lord, I warrant you we will play our part As he shall think by our true diligence He is no less than what we say he is.
I’ll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead.
By your most gracious pardon, I sing but after you.
The basest horn of his hoof is more musical than the pipe of Hermes.
Your fortunes are alike.
Yet it was said It should not stand in thy posterity, But that myself should be the root and father Of many kings.
Macbeth!
The enemy comes on in gallant show.
In every good thing.
He says they can do nothing in this kind.
What speech, my good lord?
As a walled town is more worthier than a village, so is the forehead of a married man more honorable than the bare brow of a bachelor.
And the best of me is diligence.
 Antony wants to see you now.
Tell me, daughter Juliet, How stands your disposition to be married?
To leave his wife, to leave his babes, His mansion and his titles in a place From whence himself does fly?
I say my prayers aloud.
I stretch it out for that word “broad,” which, added to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
I would I were, to be revenged on thee.
Happy were England would this virtuous prince Take on his grave the sovereignty thereof.
My falcon now is sharp and passing empty, And, till she stoop, she must not be full-gorged, For then she never looks upon her lure.
Revolving this will teach thee how to curse.
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears, Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears.
None of these rogues and cowards But Ajax is their fool.
The sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures.
What must be shall be.
What canst thou swear by now?
Marry, beshrew my hand If it should give your age such cause of fear.
And another storm brewing, I hear it sing i' th' wind.
Peace yet again.
Come, father, I’ll bestow you with a friend.
Here’s a night pities neither wise man nor fool.
Then patiently hear my impatience.
God be wi' you, sir.
Will it be ever thus?
Susan and she—God rest all Christian souls!— Were of an age.
Most like.
I tell thee, Kate, ’twas burnt and dried away.
The quality of nothing hath not such need to hide itself.
His Honor and myself are at the one, And at the other is my good friend Catesby, Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us Whereof I shall not have intelligence.
That eye my daughter lent her; ’tis most true.
And so am I, being else by faith enforced To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
Now will I to the chink, To spy an I can hear my Thisbe’s face.
How much more elder art thou than thy looks!
Hear me yet, good Shylock.
Tis but an hour ago since it was nine, And after one hour more ’twill be eleven.
My father, poorly led?
Die when thou hast lived.
Here’s drink.
 our lives, our souls, our debts, our anxious wives, our children, and our sins.” I must bear responsibility for all of it.
The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees.
Give me your hands if we be friends,  And Robin shall restore amends.
Can you make no use of your discontent?
Give me my robe, for I will go.
Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly, And all the gods go with you!
Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter cricket thou!
Go ask his name.—If he be married.
And, hark!
If he were dead, you’d weep for him.
I took him sleeping—that is finished too— And the Athenian woman by his side, That, when he waked, of force she must be eyed.
Very ill, too.
But, oh, vain boast!
M”—why, that begins my name.
Come like shadows; so depart!
Look to ’t, I charge you.
I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
Get horses for your mistress.
Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear All your true followers out.
A friend?
The galleys Have sent a dozen sequent messengers This very night at one another’s heels, And many of the consuls, raised and met, Are at the Duke’s already.
A good matter, surely.
What you would have I’ll stay to know at your abandoned cave.
Nature wants stuff To vie strange forms with fancy, yet t’ imagine An Antony were nature’s piece ’gainst fancy, Condemning shadows quite. 
My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband.
But we have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal stings, our unbitted lusts.
But that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not know me!
O villainy!
Cold, cold, my girl, Even like thy chastity.
Please ’t your highness To grace us with your royal company?
Known unto these, and to myself disguised!
How do you, sir?
Say it is done, And I will love thee and prefer thee for it.
I, gentle mistress.
How does lieutenant Cassio?
I had rather be a country servant-maid Than a great queen with this condition, To be so baited, scorned, and stormèd at.
Let’s ha ’t, good soldier.
Doth not the day break here?
And we mean well in going to this mask, But ’tis no wit to go.
Let’s see.
I do.
She that, so young, could give out such a seeming, To seel her father’s eyes up close as oak, He thought ’twas witchcraft.
Is the duke of Exeter safe?
It was his bidding.
Dolor comes to him, indeed.
I’ll set her on.
I’ll write straight to my sister To hold my very course.
Good my liege— Peace, Kent.
I understand not, madam.
Would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious tale in telling it, and deliver a plain message bluntly.
Come apace, good Audrey.
 Charles Delabreth, High Constable of France; you dukes of Orléans, Bourbon, Berri, Alençon, Brabant, Bar, and Burgundy; Jaques Chatillon, Rambures, Vaudemont, Beaumont, Grandpré, Roussi, and Fauconberg, Foix, Lestrale, Bouciqualt, and Charolois.
They vanished strangely.
They are then excused, my lord, when they see not what they do.
Is there no offense in ’t?
Sir, in fine, Seeing how loathly opposite I stood To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion, With his preparèd sword he charges home My unprovided body, latched mine arm.
Give me a torch.
How have I been behaved that he might stick The small’st opinion on my least misuse?
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig’s tail Tickling a parson’s nose as he lies asleep, Then he dreams of another benefice.
What, ho?
Reserve them till a merrier hour than this.
Why look you strange on me?
Here he comes, and the Scots captain, Captain Jamy, with him. 
Tis well thou art not fish.
Fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means, warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer as a Christian is?
There must be conclusions.
Nay, but swear ’t.
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
Lord, what though?
Carry this mad knave to the jail.—Father Baptista, I charge you see that he be forthcoming.
While he was yet in Rome His power went out in such distractions as Beguiled all spies.
He will come straight.
Is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice?
Why, how now, Stephano?
I nursed her daughter that you talked withal.
Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
Go carry them and smear The sleepy grooms with blood.
Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?
Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she willfully seeks her own salvation?
But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear As all the metal in your shop will answer.
Lay forth the gown.
Who’s there?
Name Cleopatra as she is called in Rome.
Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet.
And my heart too.
Alack, alack!
Tell her my love, more noble than the world, Prizes not quantity of dirty lands; The parts that fortune hath bestowed upon her, Tell her, I hold as giddily as fortune; But ’tis that miracle and queen of gems That nature pranks her in attracts my soul.
Why, and I trust I may go too, may I not?
Do you hear, Cassio?
And you by land.
And so will I.
I know when one is dead and when one lives.
Titinius' face is upward.
Where is my lady?
But thou with mildness entertain’st thy wooers, With gentle conference, soft and affable.
Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at the next turning.
Let me say “Amen” betimes, lest the devil cross my prayer, for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew. 
But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name should be hanged and carved upon these trees?
No, for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that does those things.
Good dawning to thee, friend.
No, not tonight.
By our beards (if we had them), thou art.
Now to that name my courage prove my title!
Why, the honest men.
Oh, how I love thee!
No, Kate?
Basting.
What ho, the Emperor’s guard!
Some achieve greatness—” What sayest thou?
Now Romeo is beloved and loves again, Alike bewitchèd by the charm of looks, But to his foe supposed he must complain, And she steal love’s sweet bait from fearful hooks.
This tempest will not give me leave to ponder On things would hurt me more.
Pray God, sir, your wife send you not a worse.
I was a fine fool to take it.
So you walk softly, and look sweetly, and say nothing, I am yours for the walk, and especially when I walk away.
Thou art a fool.
Farewell.
Sir, I shall study deserving.
But wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens?
You have done well by water.
Then go we in to know his embassy, Which I could with a ready guess declare Before the Frenchman speak a word of it.
Belike Some things—I know not what.
Wherein we saw thee quietly interred, Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws To cast thee up again.
Her eye in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night.
Happily, amen!
But how long fairly shall her sweet life last?
Murder, murder!
What, jealous Oberon?—Fairies, skip hence.
I hope your Majesty is pear me testimony and witness, and will avouchment that this is the glove of Alençon that your Majesty is give me, in your conscience now.
Free, madam, no.
Meantime God grants that we have need of you.
In debating which was best, we shall part with neither.
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of very liberal conceit.
I am famished in his service.
Sound, trumpet!
My Lord— Ay, what’s o'clock?
What ceremony else?
I am in your debt for your last exercise.
I would he knew that I had saved his brother.
Draw up your powers.
Why, what should be the fear?
Iras, long farewell.
Why ask you this?
Why, to keep one’s eyes of either side ’s nose, that what a man cannot smell out, he may spy into.
A very mean meaning.
You make me study of that.
I am so lated in the world that I Have lost my way forever.
Yea, by Mass, that it is.
Tell me at whose suit.
Hail!
Lepidus flatters both, Of both is flattered, but he neither loves, Nor either cares for him.
To thee a woman’s services are due.
You touched my vein at first.
Claudio!
I saw thee late at the Count Orsino’s.
Come, you are too severe a moraler.
These are portents, but yet I hope, I hope They do not point on me.
Cassio, my lord, hath killed a young Venetian Called Roderigo.
Marry, you may partly hope that your father got you not, that you are not the Jew’s daughter.
There’s the point.
My purposes do draw me much about.
Lord, what fools these mortals be!
For, you know, Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight.
You use this dalliance to excuse Your breach of promise to the Porpentine.
Tis here.
I mean that my heart unto yours is knit So that but one heart we can make of it.
Hold, Toby!
He was a man.
Tush, fear not, man.
Put out the light, and then put out the light.
None can be called deformed but the unkind.
Brought to this town by that most famous warrior Duke Menaphon, your most renownèd uncle.
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus, The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
He is the only man of Italy, Always excepted my dear Claudio.
Ha, ha, ha!
Not know me yet?
This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke Instantly know, and of that letter too.
Yes, he is dead.
Ha, ha, are you honest?
Dishonor not your mothers.
What, I say?
That I have, lady.
Bring forth men-children only, For thy undaunted mettle should compose Nothing but males.
Your way is shorter.
Be thou my witness that against my will, As Pompey was, am I compelled to set Upon one battle all our liberties.
Well then, Legitimate Edgar, I must have your land.
If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who should down.
I can tell what thou wouldst do.
I have sent twenty out to seek for you.
No?
Gower is a good captain, and is good knowledge and literatured in the wars.
This doth not so, for she divideth us.
Were we before our armies, and to fight, I should do thus.
Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes.
Open the tomb.
Would she had never given you leave to come!
I know not what you mean by that, but I am sure Caesar fell down.
I pray you, give me leave.
Do not you love me?
You were the word of war.
I have nothing to do with thee.
Who maintains 'em?
I have drunk poison whiles he uttered it.
Striving to better, oft we mar what’s well.
Is there a murderer here?
There’s part of a power already footed.
How looked he?
If then true lovers have been ever crossed, It stands as an edict in destiny.
Go to, you are too shrewd.
What money, sir?
Lurk, lurk.
May it be done?
I will have my bond.
And sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring forth more islands.
Sir, in Argier.
Dissemble not your hatred.
Hang not on my garments.
Open ’t, and read it.
Tis not needed yet.
Good counsel, marry.
Support him by the arm.
Domestic fury and fierce civil strife Shall cumber all the parts of Italy.
How does my old acquaintance of this isle?— Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus, I have found great love amongst them.
A southwest blow on ye And blister you all o'er!
What, master, read you?
No hope that way is Another way so high a hope that even Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond, But doubt discovery there.
Who stays it still withal?
He were a brave monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
How now, old lad?
His leg is but so-so—and yet ’tis well.
You spoke not with her since?
I will, my lord.
Even as a flatt'ring dream or worthless fancy.
I’ll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle.
Why would you be so fond to overcome The bonny prizer of the humorous duke?
How “seventh cause”?—Good my lord, like this fellow.
Go armed.
Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong For the whole world.
Well, well, away.
So may you lose your arms.
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste, For beauty, starved with her severity, Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
Mark me.
Oh, woe the day!
Hastings and Edward’s children, Grey and Rivers, Holy King Henry and thy fair son Edward, Vaughan, and all that have miscarrièd By underhand, corrupted, foul injustice, If that your moody, discontented souls Do through the clouds behold this present hour, Even for revenge mock my destruction.— This is All Souls' Day, fellow, is it not?
Her worth being mounted on the wind, Through all the world bears Rosalind.
Therefore ’tis certain he was not ambitious.
Why, he had none.
There’s the respect That makes calamity of so long life.
Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense, so forcible is thy wit.
Tyrant, show thy face!
Arise, you shall not kneel.
Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup.
Ay, madam.
Yet there he was, and there I found this credit, That he did range the town to seek me out.
That methinks is strange.
Why, then let’s home again.
She is stirring, sir.
Though you have put me into darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over me, yet have I the benefit of my senses as well as your Ladyship.
Before God, and in my mind, very wise.
Yond same black cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor.
I will resolve you herein presently.
Thou dost not wish more help from England, coz?
It was divided Between her heart and lips.
Why, Gloucester, Gloucester, I’d speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
I prithee, tell me who is it quickly, and speak apace.
Do as I bid thee, go.
The storm is up and all is on the hazard.
All hail, Macbeth!
But who dare tell her so?
Give me mine armor.
I’ll rather kill myself.
Oh, fie upon thee, strumpet!
Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day Men of great worth resorted to this forest, Addressed a mighty power, which were on foot In his own conduct, purposely to take His brother here and put him to the sword.
With who?
Is Romeo slaughtered, and is Tybalt dead?
Let me have surgeons.
Not I but my affairs have made you wait.
What will become of this?
Had I your tongues and eyes, I’d use them so That heaven’s vault should crack.
For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by.
Which way hast thou been?
Masters, the duke is coming from the temple, and there is two or three lords and ladies more married.
It was not brought me, my lord.
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth, Unapt to toil and trouble in the world, But that our soft conditions and our hearts Should well agree with our external parts?
I pray you, what is he?
Indeed, the French may lay twenty French crowns to one they will beat us, for they bear them on their shoulders.
Well, Jessica, go in.
To ’t, luxury, pell-mell—for I lack soldiers. 
Now, Signior, what news?
The greater cantle of the world is lost With very ignorance.
He’s gone.
Be collected.
A traveler.
If all the devils of hell be drawn in little, and Legion himself possessed him, yet I’ll speak to him.
Go, go, up to the leads.
Thyself shalt see the act.
Nurse?
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
Faith, I know not what to say.
Is it not hard, Nerissa, that I cannot choose one nor refuse none? 
And you too, sir.
No.
Know’st thou not the duke Hath banished me, his daughter?
Clarence still breathes; Edward still lives and reigns.
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke.
I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night, appoint her to look out at her lady’s chamber window.
No, thou proud dream, That play’st so subtly with a king’s repose.
Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
I’ll tell you, there is good men porn at Monmouth.
Since he went into France, I have been in continual practice.
Help, ho!
Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since, Thy father was the Duke of Milan and A prince of power.
Come, good fellow, put thine iron on.
It is not possible.
Which, when I saw rehearsed, I must confess, Made mine eyes water—but more merry tears The passion of loud laughter never shed.
Twas a rough night.
Marry, ’tis enough.
A truant disposition, good my lord.
When they are in great danger, I recover them.
I find you passing gentle.
No.
Go, by this token.
Who offered him the crown?
What, To kiss in private?
There, take my coxcomb.
And your reports have set the murder on.
But in my terms of honor I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement Till by some elder masters, of known honor, I have a voice and precedent of peace To keep my name ungored.
Therefore exhale.
Gentle madam, no.
Oh, coward that I am, to live so long To see my best friend ta'en before my face!
You are my elder.
Lead me to my chamber.
Take comfort.
I’ll be gone.
Who keeps her company?
This mortal house I’ll ruin, Do Caesar what he can.
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow’s wings.
Time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides, Who covers faults at last with shame derides.
But, my good lord, your Graces' words shall serve As well as I had seen and heard him speak; And do not doubt, right noble princes both, But I’ll acquaint our duteous citizens With all your just proceedings in this case.
For, as I am a soldier, A name that in my thoughts becomes me best, If I begin the batt'ry once again, I will not leave the half-achieved Harfleur Till in her ashes she lie burièd.
Thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius.
The games are done and Caesar is returning.
I must fetch his necessaries ashore.
 she
Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love, And have forsworn you with Hortensio.
From top to toe?
 Mark Antony is expected to arrive in Rome at any hour now.
Now fear I this will give it start again.
Come, vial.
I thank you for your pains and courtesy.
Even since you left it.
By this sword, I will.
If he be sad, he wants money.
She was too fond of her most filthy bargain.
You wrong me, Brutus.
Adieu.
Come hither, fellow.
An’t please your Majesty, ’tis the gage of one that I should fight withal, if he be alive.
By Jeshu, I am your Majesty’s countryman, I care not who know it.
Why, sir, you know no house nor no such maid, Nor no such men as you have reckoned up, As Stephen Sly and old John Naps of Greece, And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell, And twenty more such names and men as these, Which never were, nor no man ever saw.
Fear it, Ophelia.
Things must be as they may.
What services canst thou do?
I know my hour is come.
Find you out a bed, For I upon this bank will rest my head.
Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here.
To the breach, to the breach!
Go to, they are not men o' their words.
We will have no telling.
He is not lolling on a lewd love bed, But on his knees at meditation; Not dallying with a brace of courtesans, But meditating with two deep divines; Not sleeping, to engross his idle body, But praying, to enrich his watchful soul.
Dark night, that from the eye his function takes, The ear more quick of apprehension makes.
What say you?
Banquo!
I will, my Hermia.
If I do live, I will be good to thee.
Come, go in.
Lo, where he comes!
The note lies in ’s throat, if he say I said so.  
Let him not leave out The color of her hair.
Ay, are you thereabouts?
But by immortal providence, she’s mine.
I’ll send to one in Mantua, Where that same banished runagate doth live, Shall give him such an unaccustomed dram That he shall soon keep Tybalt company.
The great rage, You see, is killed in him.
Antony Did tell me of you, bade me trust you, but I do not greatly care to be deceived, That have no use for trusting.
Nay, blush not, Cleopatra.
I would not see ’t.
Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men, As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs, Shoughs, water-rugs, and demi-wolves are clept All by the name of dogs.
Oh, behold, The riches of the ship is come on shore!
Trail’st thou the puissant pike?
Bring me word how tall she is.
How!
Madam, what should I do?
Fall and cease.
I hate it as an unfilled can.
I am glad of it.
I come to thee for charitable license, That we may wander o'er this bloody field To book our dead and then to bury them; To sort our nobles from our common men, For many of our princes—woe the while!— Lie drowned and soaked in mercenary blood.
As ignorant as dirt!
The spring, the summer, The childing autumn, angry winter change Their wonted liveries, and the mazèd world, By their increase, now knows not which is which.
What man art thou that, thus bescreened in night, So stumblest on my counsel?
If it were now to die, 'Twere now to be most happy, for I fear My soul hath her content so absolute That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate.
Make her amends, she weeps.
I know my physic will work with him.
Speak, I’ll go no further.
And, in conclusion, she shall watch all night, And if she chance to nod I’ll rail and brawl, And with the clamor keep her still awake.
Ay, if the devil tempt you to do good.
It was the nightingale, and not the lark, That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear.
Yea, noise?
Launcelot and I are out.
It shall lose thee nothing.
I am cut to th' brains.
I am content, so the maiden cities you talk of may wait on her.
You are dull, Casca, and those sparks of life That should be in a Roman you do want, Or else you use not.
O, my fair cousin, I must not say so.
I am not I if there be such an  Or those eyes shut that makes thee answer “ay.” If he be slain, say “ay,” or if not, “no.” Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
For my part, I am so attired in wonder I know not what to say.
What, are you hurt, lieutenant?
What have you, my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune that she sends you to prison hither?
Sans fable, she herself reviled you there.
Give us the place alone.
I would not be cured, youth.
If you did wear a beard upon your chin, I’d shake it on this quarrel.
Truly, a peck of provender.
I did not see you since you sent me hence, Home to the Centaur with the gold you gave me.
Would the night were come!
Neither.
Where is our usual manager of mirth?
Look, he recovers.
If she be black, and thereto have a wit, She’ll find a white that shall her blackness fit.
News, friends!
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both.
The plainsong” is most just, for humors do abound.
And even for that do I love you the more.
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.
But as ’tis, We cannot miss him.
Do ’t, knight.
What’s he?
Noble captain, come.
My remedy is then to pluck it out.
Believe me, I am not.
Beg another of thy daughters.
I can suck melancholy out of a song as a weasel sucks eggs.
Oh, she is lame!
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the tragedians of the city.
Come hither, sirrah.
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where I shall have my music for nothing.
Go we to him.
The air Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself Unto our gentle senses.
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it, And yet I would it were to give again.
You stand amazed, But be of comfort.
Wonder not Nor be grieved.
Armed, my lord.
What needed, then, that terrible dispatch of it into your pocket?
Therefore I took your hands, but was indeed Swayed from the point by looking down on Caesar.
I do desire no more.
By Dromio?
An they will take it, so.
Bear welcome in your eye, Your hand, your tongue.
Have you no more to say?
Do you question me as an honest man should do, for my simple true judgment?
Pray thee, take pain To allay with some cold drops of modesty Thy skipping spirit, lest through thy wild behavior I be misconst’red in the place I go to, And lose my hopes.
I know him to be valiant.
If thou would have such a one, take me.
Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
Taurus!
Therefore great France My mourning and importuned tears hath pitied.
Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
And I’ll still stay, to have thee still forget, Forgetting any other home but this.
Count the clock.
Fear me not.— She and the duke her husband!
What news?
Nay, then thou lov’st it not And all my pains is sorted to no proof.
No man that’s born of woman Shall e'er have power upon thee.” Then fly, false thanes, And mingle with the English epicures.
Why had I not with charitable hand Took up a beggar’s issue at my gates, Who, smirchèd thus, and mired with infamy, I might have said, “No part of it is mine; This shame derives itself from unknown loins”?
What night-rule now about this haunted grove?
How appears the fight?
Oh, that brave Caesar!
It was two ere I left him, and now the clock strikes one.
The revelers are entering, brother.
Tis expressly against the law of arms.
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man As e'er my conversation coped withal.
He grows worse and worse.
How say you, Signior Gremio?
What need one?
We are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us.
I' th' mire.
O my son, what theme?
Fears and scruples shake us.
I see thou know’st me not.
Pause awhile, And let my counsel sway you in this case.
They flatter me.
And you, good yeoman, Whose limbs were made in England, show us here The mettle of your pasture.
She give it Cassio?
Portia, adieu.
And most chirurgeonly.
 I hate the Moor.
More, I prithee, more.
Not today, O Lord, Oh, not today, think not upon the fault My father made in compassing the crown.
I remember thine eyes well enough.
Mine eyes do itch, Doth that bode weeping?
We do not come as minding to contest you, Our true intent is.
The weakest kind of fruit Drops earliest to the ground, and so let me.
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Thy half o' th' kingdom hast thou not forgot, Wherein I thee endowed.
I wonder none of you have thought of him.
Orlando doth commend him to you both, And to that youth he calls his Rosalind He sends this bloody napkin.
Would I were satisfied!
How dost, my lord?
If it please the eye of one, it is with me as the very true sonnet is, “Please one, and please all.”  Why, how dost thou, man?
And this, Metellus Cimber.
Now, darting Parthia, art thou struck, and now Pleased fortune does of Marcus Crassus’ death Make me revenger.
I have yet Room for six scotches more.
Ratcliffe!
Alack the day.
Would I were so too.
To what end, my lord?
 you can tell by my long ears.
Be brisk 0awhile, and the longer liver take all.
Why did you laugh then, when I said “man delights not me”?
Who comes here?
What comfortable hour canst thou name, That ever graced me in thy company?
You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me.— Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me.
But where hast thou been, then?
Now your jest is earnest.
She gives it out that you shall marry her.
A devil!
I rather choose To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you, Than I will wrong such honorable men.
My life will be too short, And every measure fail me.
If that her breath will mist or stain the stone, Why then, she lives.
If you do stir abroad, go armed.
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
Peace, ho!
I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your mother, and to Master Peascod, your father.
This contents.
Fear comes upon me.
Who doth he gallop withal?
The time of universal peace is near.
Tis much.—Servants, leave me and her alone.
Wherefore’s this noise?
Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.
Nay, as they dare.
Thus have I, Wall, my part dischargèd so.
Dear lad, believe it.
For even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny, whose qualification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio.
Hath he set bounds between their love and me?
A calendar, a calendar!
Why, what are you?
There is further compliment of leave-taking between France and him.
He has my dying voice.
I swear I’ll cuff you if you strike again.
These tidings will well comfort Cassius.
I led them on in this distracted fear And left sweet Pyramus translated there.
This blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child And here was left by th' sailors.
A good knave.
It is impossible.
My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart.
Being unprepared, Our will became the servant to defect, Which else should free have wrought.
This interchange of love, I here protest, Upon my part shall be inviolable.
My gentleman, Cesario?
My tables!—Meet it is I set it down That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain.
I am a gentleman.
My royal cousin, teach you our princess English?
I think he bought his doublet in Italy, his round hose in France, his bonnet in Germany, and his behavior everywhere.
Lo, where it comes again.
I’ll do my best To woo your lady— Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.
Our enemies have beat us to the pit.
You may be rightly just, Whatever I shall think.
All is lost!
Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
I will not change my horse with any that treads but on four pasterns.
I’ll assure you, he uttered as prave words at the pridge as you shall see in a summer’s day.
Tis true.
Was not that letter from fair Jessica?
Maid’s mild behavior and sobriety.
Go fetch them hither.
I will hear further reason for this.
You shall, Mark Antony.
I have done.
Now is it time to arm.
Conceit upon her father.
Mine ear must pluck it thence.
This blows my heart.
Now go thy way.
He came too late.
Then, with your will, go on.
But what talk I of this?
This will so fright them both that they will kill one another by the look, like cockatrices. 
I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a lion.
As a friend.
Carry him gently to my fairest chamber And hang it round with all my wanton pictures.
Come, I’ll go in with you.
What, shall one of us That struck the foremost man of all this world But for supporting robbers, shall we now Contaminate our fingers with base bribes, And sell the mighty space of our large honors For so much trash as may be graspèd thus?
You must not look so sour.
Nor will do none tomorrow.
I will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a challenge.
He’s in yellow stockings. 
I should have given ’t you today morning, but as a madman’s epistles are no gospels, so it skills not much when they are delivered.
Smatter with your gossips, go.
You strike my people, and your disordered rabble Make servants of their betters.
And let no man abide this deed But we the doers.
Welcome, my good Alexas.
Zounds, he dies!
I should not urge thy duty past thy might.
Away!
We speak no treason, man.
Not Caesar’s valor hath o’erthrown Antony, But Antony’s hath triumphed on itself.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be A couch for luxury and damnèd incest.
Humbly on my knee I crave your blessing.
Oh, Caesar, This Charmian lived but now.
O, do not do your cousin such a wrong!
Return with her?
Is there division ’twixt my lord and Cassio?
If that same demon that hath gulled thee thus Should with his lion gait walk the whole world, He might return to vasty Tartar back And tell the legions “I can never win A soul so easy as that Englishman’s.” Oh, how hast thou with jealousy infected The sweetness of affiance!
The clock hath stricken three.
Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold In him that did object the same to thee!
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late, It may be thought we held him carelessly, Being our kinsman, if we revel much.
I cry thee mercy, then, for I did think That thou hadst called me all these bitter names.
I dare assure you, sir, ’tis almost two, And ’twill be supper time ere you come there.
Keep your purse.
No marvel, lord, though it affrighted you.
Will you sup with me tonight, Casca?
Call them again.
Will he tell us what this show meant?
Poor Ophelia Divided from herself and her fair judgment, Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts.
We two alone will sing like birds i' th' cage.
That he hath usèd thee.
Let me see, let me see.
Well, thou hast comforted me marvelous much.
Welcome, my lord.
The minute of their plot Is almost come.—Well done.
Truly, she makes a very good report o’ th’ worm.
I am sorry I beat thee.
No woman’s heart So big, to hold so much.
One way I like this well.
There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in all things.
I’ll find Romeo To comfort you.
I see the jewel best enamelèd Will lose his beauty.
Then move not, while my prayer’s effect I take.
Or neither?
This is called “the countercheck quarrelsome,” and so to “the lie circumstantial” and “the lie direct.”  And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
You shall be a woodmonger and buy nothing of me but cudgels.
Lend me your hand.
Is ’t possible you will away tonight?
Set you down this,
It was, so please your highness.
Realms and islands were As plates dropped from his pocket.
Nathaniel’s coat, sir, was not fully made, And Gabriel’s pumps were all unpinked i' th' heel.
Who is that calls so coldly?
What say’st thou, noble heart?
The queen your mother, in most great affliction of spirit, hath sent me to you.
She has deceived her father, and may thee.
Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine Nor age so eat up my invention Nor fortune made such havoc of my means Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends But they shall find, awaked in such a kind, Both strength of limb and policy of mind, Ability in means and choice of friends, To quit me of them throughly.
She shall be buried with her face upwards.
But, tell me, where is princely Richmond now?
Tell the clock there.
Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee.
Tis true, my lords, he did.
 a young man and an old man, having a serious talk.
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
And thou must make a dullard of the world, If they not thought the profits of my death Were very pregnant and potential spirits To make thee seek it.”    O strange and fastened villain!
Yes, it is apparel.
How oddly thou repliest!
I shall be there before thee.
Alack, sir, you cannot see your way.
Lo, here’s the chain.
It is a letter from my brother that I have not all o'er-read.
Who brought it?
Let it not, Brutus.
What’s done is done.
If she be in her chamber or your house, Let loose on me the justice of the state For thus deluding you.
There lies your love.
The ingratitude of this Seleucus does Even make me wild.
Why Doth it not then our eyelids sink?
What’s thy pleasure?
Well, sir?
Turn melancholy forth to funerals.
Follow my mother.
And if your love Can labor ought in sad invention, Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb And sing it to her bones.
Bid them achieve me and then sell my bones.
Come, gentlemen, let’s go.
We’ll visit Caliban, my slave who never Yields us kind answer.
Why will you mew her up, Signior Baptista, for this fiend of hell And make her bear the penance of her tongue?
Every one that does so is a traitor and must be hanged.
Tell me not, Friar, that thou hear’st of this, Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it.
Then, my queen, in silence sad, Trip we after the night’s shade.
I wis, your grandam had a worser match.
Therefore thou liest.
I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
And I’ll be wise hereafter And seek for grace.
Anything.
Why?
Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.
 it’s not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome more.
You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
Is love a tender thing?
I am not in the giving vein today.
The morning comes upon ’s.
Sir, his chests and treasure He has not with him.
Oh, out of that “no hope” What great hope have you!
But yesterday the word of Caesar might Have stood against the world.
Helen, it is not so.
Well, keep me company but two years more, Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue.
I had rather have my horse to my mistress.
I saw the handkerchief.
That she’s the chosen of Signior Hortensio.
Then swore he that he was a stranger here.
Nay, the man hath no wit that cannot, from the rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb, vary deserved praise on my palfrey.
Was ever book containing such vile matter So fairly bound?
You see her eyes are open.
 he is well-born, has proven his bravery in battle, and has established his good character.
I know you of old.
The gentleman that danced with her told her she is much wronged by you.
 she took care of me in the kitchen today, thinking I was you.
I will discharge it in either your straw-color beard, your orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your French crown-color beard, your perfect yellow.
Have you that holy feeling in your souls To counsel me to make my peace with God, And art you yet to your own souls so blind That thou will war with God by murd'ring me?
Up in the air, crowned with the golden sun, Saw his heroical seed and smiled to see him Mangle the work of nature and deface The patterns that by God and by French fathers Had twenty years been made.
I’ll bring thee word Straight how ’tis like to go.
Ay, marry, are they, sir.
And then came Pyramus.
Your lord does know my mind.
This is the latest parle we will admit.
A worthy fool!
Let him command, And to obey shall be in me remorse, What bloody business ever.
No, if without more words you will get you hence.
Come ho, and wake Diana with a hymn!
I’ll to my book, For yet ere supper-time must I perform Much business appertaining.
My comfort is that old age, that ill layer-up of beauty, can do no more spoil upon my face.
Briefness and fortune, work!— Brother, a word.
I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
I have an interest in your hearts' proceeding.
Carry me to the jail?
Pray you, is he married to Cleopatra?
And, being men, bearing the will of Caesar, It will inflame you, it will make you mad.
Some dear cause Will in concealment wrap me up awhile.
You have heard him swear downright he was.
For your physicians have expressly charged, In peril to incur your former malady, That I should yet absent me from your bed.
Had you not been their father, these white flakes Did challenge pity of them.
I never saw her till this time.
What’s that, my lord?
What, is the fellow mad?
I' th' clout, i' th' clout.
Such news, my lord, as grieves me to report.
What had he done to make him fly the land?
I will follow you.
Not in my husband’s nose.
Good my lord.
You knew my father well, and in him me, Left solely heir to all his lands and goods, Which I have bettered rather than decreased.
And you, sir.
May I never To this good purpose, that so fairly shows, Dream of impediment!
Farewell, fair cruelty.
Go and trim her up.
Go with me To bless this twain that they may prosperous be, And honored in their issue.
Farewell to you.—And you.—And you, Volumnius.
Are these, I pray you, wind instruments?
My lord it shall be done.
The poor world is almost six thousand years old, and in all this time there was not any man died in his own person, videlicet, in a love cause.
Which is Sebastian?
Look, with what courteous action It waves you to a more removèd ground.
First, there is the Neapolitan prince.
No, Cassio is not killed.
More light and light it grows.
Your betters, sir.
The king’s son, Ferdinand, With hair up-staring—then, like reeds, not hair— Was the first man that leaped, cried, “Hell is empty And all the devils are here.”      Why, that’s my spirit!
Hie to your chamber.
There is a lord will hear you play tonight; But I am doubtful of your modesties, Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior— For yet his Honor never heard a play— You break into some merry passion And so offend him.
Refuse it not.
I will follow.
No, truly.
Give me some help.
Let no fair be kept in mind But the fair of Rosalind.
And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
Renownèd duke, vouchsafe to take the pains To go with us into the abbey here And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes, And all that are assembled in this place That by this sympathizèd one day’s error Have suffered wrong.
Come hither, Nurse.
An abominable monster!
The duke of Gloucester, to whom the order of the siege is given, is altogether directed by an Irishman, a very valiant gentleman, i' faith.
That you must teach me.
Is it possible?
My countryman, but yet I know him not.
My young remembrance cannot parallel A fellow to it.
Is he not approved in the height a villain, that hath slandered, scorned, dishonored my kinswoman?
I will o’ertake thee, Cleopatra, and Weep for my pardon.
Not in my house, Lucentio, for you know Pitchers have ears, and I have many servants.
Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin As self-neglecting.
My lord?
Have at the very eye of that proverb with “A pox of the devil.”  You are the better at proverbs, by how much “A fool’s bolt is soon shot.”  You have shot over.
We’ll to dinner, thither.
You have forgot the will I told you of.
What is thy soul of adoration?
Do, young sir.
Good shepherd, tell this youth what ’tis to love.
The foul fiend haunts Poor Tom in the voice of a nightingale.
Monday!
I think it doth.
Beseech you, father.
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
I will have my revenge ere I depart his house.
Look, here comes a walking fire.
What say’st thou, my fair flower de luce?
Oh!
Not now to hear thee sing.
Well, I will thither.
I think it is not meet Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar, Should outlive Caesar.
Prithee, listen well.
Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns.
I must not say no.
Honest, ay, honest.
It were well The general were put in mind of it.
She thanked me And bade me, if I had a friend that loved her, I should but teach him how to tell my story And that would woo her.
O Isis, ’tis impossible.
An you lie, sirrah, we’ll have you whipped.
What’s the matter?
Now gods that we adore, whereof comes this?
It was in place where I could not breed no contention with him, but I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see him once again, and then I will tell him a little piece of my desires.
The question of his death is enrolled in the Capitol.
I know thee well—a serviceable villain, As duteous to the vices of thy mistress As badness would desire.
We shall, my lord, Perform what you command us.
Let heaven and men and devils, let them all, All, all cry shame against me, yet I’ll speak.
What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?
Tigers, not daughters, what have you performed?
Look upon Caesar.
Methinks I hear Antony call.
Good madam.
As the time, the place, and the condition of this country stands, I could heartily wish this had not befallen.
How do you, pretty lady?
Therefore I pray you That to our sister you do make return.
Show me which way.
Lies all within.—Deliver me the key.
But life itself, my wife, and all the world Are not with me esteemed above thy life.
I would lose all—ay, sacrifice them all Here to this devil—to deliver you.
Nor in thine, lord.
I have sent after him.
I will not leave him now till Cassio Be called to him.—How is ’t with you, my lord?
Of this discourse we more will hear anon.— Egeus, I will overbear your will.
Come, bird, come.
He tells me flatly there is no mercy for me in heaven because I am a Jew’s daughter, and he says you are no good member of the commonwealth, for in converting Jews to Christians you raise the price of pork.
I do not, sir.
Under what title shall I woo for thee, That God, the law, my honor and her love Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
There’s none else by.
Good night.
There’s ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark But he’s an arrant knave.
It is determined, not concluded yet; But so it must be if the king miscarry.
Madam, sleeps still.
World, world, O world!
To do what, Signior?
But come, your Bergomask.
What say you, Hermia?
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes, Misprizing what they look on, and her wit Values itself so highly that to her All matter else seems weak.
Dead, I think.—Help, uncle!— Hero, why, Hero!
Why, how should she be murdered?
Then forth, dear countrymen.
On.
At a word, I am not.
Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man’s a-hungry, to challenge him the field and then to break promise with him and make a fool of him.
Farewell both.
Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows.
As I do live, my honored lord, ’tis true.
Then you are mad indeed, if you be no better in your wits than a fool.
Pindarus, Bid our commanders lead their charges off A little from this ground.
Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble, Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth.
Happy indeed, as we have spent the day.
Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work.
Good now, hold thy tongue.
There’s Dolabella sent from Caesar.
He cannot be such a monster— Nor is not, sure.
Hang him, Jack!
Hold you still.
Ay, my good lord.
What is my offense?
We have sworn, my lord, already.
No port is free, no place That guard and most unusual vigilance Does not attend my taking.
Shall they hoist me up And show me to the shouting varletry Of censuring Rome?
Well pray you, father.
Why, this is an arrant counterfeit rascal.
Queen Margaret saw Thy murd'rous falchion smoking in his blood, The which thou once didst bend against her breast, But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
A good moral, my lord
Were he not warmed with ale, This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.
He comes, my lord.
How have you known the miseries of your father?
Down with the topmast!
Cowards die many times before their deaths.
I do know, When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul Lends the tongue vows.
Good gentle one, give me modest assurance if you be the lady of the house, that I may proceed in my speech.
Hem them away.
But sure I fear we shall not win him to it.
Come.
I care not.
Thou art a fool.
Call in my gentlewoman.
One side will mock another—th' other too.
My babes were destined to a fairer death If grace had blessed thee with a fairer life.
Is ’t possible?
Shall we call in th' ambassador, my liege?
Well, I will marry one day, but to try.
My master hath appointed me to go to Saint Luke’s to bid the priest be ready to come against you come with your appendix.
Now, what news on the Rialto?
And I.
Nobody come?
I pray thee, let us go and find him out And quicken his embracèd heaviness With some delight or other.
Though our lives— Your spirits shine through you.
If th' other two be brained like us, the state totters.
Now go to the door and stay there till we call.
Besides, the knave is handsome, young, and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green minds look after.
Why, it stood by her.
He hath disgraced me and hindered me half a million, laughed at my losses, mocked at my gains, scorned my nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine enemies—and what’s his reason?
Am I Dromio?
Take thou some new infection to thy eye, And the rank poison of the old will die.
But now they rise again With twenty mortal murders on their crowns And push us from our stools.
Grieved I I had but one?
I know you by the waggling of your head.
Let it be so.
Some say the Earth Was feverous and did shake.
Or like a whale.
Some light-foot friend post to the duke of Norfolk— Ratcliffe, thyself, or Catesby.
Oh, she was foul!— I scarce did know you, uncle.
How now, Sir Toby Belch!
Methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes.
O Clitus!
Why?
Noses, ears, and lips.
One is too poor, too weak for my revenge.
This falls out better than I could devise.
What is the matter, ho?
Do you know them?
Tis Banquo’s then.
I am glad to see your Honor.
Come, lords, will you go To comfort Edward with our company?
No, you unnatural hags,
Nay, I have done.
By my life I do, which I tender dearly, though I say I am a magician.
Then he’s a rogue, and a passy-measures pavin.
There is no woman’s sides Can bide the beating of so strong a passion As love doth give my heart.
Where lodges he?
Caesar shall forth.
How otherwise?— Will you be ruled by me?
Oh, now you weep, and, I perceive, you feel The dint of pity.
He is no less than a stuffed man.
Good bawcock, 'bate thy rage.
Be these the wretches that we played at dice for?
Your statue spouting blood in many pipes, In which so many smiling Romans bathed, Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck Reviving blood, and that great men shall press For tinctures, stains, relics, and cognizance.
Let their heads be slickly combed, their blue coats brushed, and their garters of an indifferent knit.
I defy lechery.
What makes that frontlet on?
Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banishèd.
Ah, my tender babes, My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets, If yet your gentle souls fly in the air And be not fixed in doom perpetual, Hover about me with your airy wings And hear your mother’s lamentation.
I know thou canst not choose.
And I would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard heart, for truly I love none.
Pray you, tread softly, that the blind mole may not hear a foot fall.
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?
No, uncle, I’ll none.
What fool is this?
Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot Of all thy sex.
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily.
Then plainly know my heart’s dear love is set On the fair daughter of rich Capulet.
Shall I be plain?
He is returned.
Five-and-twenty, sir.
O bloody Richard!
I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts.
Even now a tailor called me in his shop And showed me silks that he had bought for me, And therewithal took measure of my body.
Pardon, sweet father.
Come from thy ward, For I can here disarm thee with this stick And make thy weapon drop.
What, ho!
Let them come in.
You must not, sir, mistake my niece.
Will you dine with me tomorrow?
Shall I go win my daughter to thy will?
What will this do?
No, pray thee.
Is ’t so, indeed.
Write down “Master Gentleman Conrade.”—Masters, do you serve God?
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Henry, Lord Scroop of Masham.
Of one whose hand, Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away Richer than all his tribe.
Portia, what mean you?
Kent, on thy life, no more.
By heaven, you do me wrong!
But here’s a villain that would face me down He met me on the mart, and that I beat him And charged him with a thousand marks in gold, And that I did deny my wife and house.— Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?
My children too?
But where was this?
She is herself a dowry.
Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.
Why, what a king is this!
But there where I have garnered up my heart, Where either I must live or bear no life, The fountain from the which my current runs Or else dries up—to be discarded thence!
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Can you inquire him out and be edified by report?
Go to him, Dolabella, bid him yield.
The man is notwithstanding sufficient.
Lysander’s love, that would not let him bide, Fair Helena, who more engilds the night Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light.
Our worser thoughts heavens mend.
Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do, In such disdainful manner me to woo.
Now, good sir, what are you?
I prithee let me have it.
I would my daughter were dead at my foot and the jewels in her ear!
O sir, fly this place.
And make him with fair Ægles break his faith, With Ariadne and Antiopa?
They say, one Taurus.
Of a certain knight that swore by his honor they were good pancakes, and swore by his honor the mustard was naught.
What is yond gentleman?
Seven days and nights?
Make it no wonder.
Thy garments are not spotted with our blood, Nor thou within the compass of my curse.
Moon and stars!
But what of Cicero?
I remember You did supplant your brother Prospero.
And with the juice of this I’ll streak her eyes And make her full of hateful fantasies.
Speak, nephew.
Madam, O good Empress!
Yea, Signior, and depart when you bid me.
To none but thee, no more but when to thee.
Our master and mistress seeks you.
He will bear you easily and reins well.
To the Elephant.
I will fetch up your goats, Audrey.
And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.
He himself Calls her a nonpareil.
He is married?
Dost thou mean the crown?
Only to despite them, I will endeavor anything.
Sit i' th' middle.
No doubt, no doubt.
Where art thou, Pindarus?
Sovereign of Egypt, hail!
This was a merry message.
Tis well consented.
How say you now?
Therefore my son i' th' ooze is bedded, and I’ll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded And with him there lie mudded.
Good sir—
Let us therefore eat and drink.
Doubtful it stood, As two spent swimmers that do cling together And choke their art.
The triplex, sir, is a good tripping measure, or the bells of Saint Bennet, sir, may put you in mind—one, two, three. 
For he partly begs To be desired to give.
Why, thy godhead laid apart, Warr’st thou with a woman’s heart?
Marry, sir, to bid my old master the Jew to sup tonight with my new master the Christian.
Never, my lord.
Hark!
Tears his white hair, Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage, Catch in their fury and make nothing of.
Whiles I threat, he lives.
Why, that he did—I know not what he did.
In my stars I am above thee, but be not afraid of greatness.
Now Antony must leave her utterly.
This is the man.
A little water clears us of this deed.
You take your pennyworths now.
To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
How fares my gracious sir?
The law allows it, and the court awards it.
I warrant it is to knight you, Captain.
Past the mid season.
Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body?
Let’s stay and hear the will.
Trust not to rotten planks.
What is the time o' th' day?
What says Polonius?
And here’s another, Writ in my cousin’s hand, stol'n from her pocket, Containing her affection unto Benedick.
The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
I will.
What shall become of this?
Let us rather Hold fast the mortal sword and, like good men, Bestride our downfall'n birthdom.
And it is very much lamented, Brutus, That you have no such mirrors as will turn Your hidden worthiness into your eye That you might see your shadow.
While then, God be with you!
There is no more but so.
In what chapter of his bosom?
So do I his.
The villain shall not ’scape.
This sight of death is as a bell, That warns my old age to a sepulcher.
From my house, if I had it— The sixth of July.
Even he that makes her queen.
Morton is fled to Richmond, And Buckingham, backed with the hardy Welshmen, Is in the field, and still his power increaseth.
What is your pleasure, madam?
I am glad of it.
This is the man.
Bring him through the bands.
 everything his heart thinks, his tongue speaks.
When he came to himself again, he said, if he had done or said anything amiss, he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity.
Ay—but not yet to die!
At least I’m sure it may be so in Denmark.
I would sing my song without a burden.
And he that will not follow Bourbon now, Let him go hence, and with his cap in hand Like a base pander hold the chamber door, Whilst by a slave, no gentler than my dog, His fairest daughter is contaminate.
Now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide, Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit To his full height.
But I have spoke With one that saw him die, who did report That very frankly he confessed his treasons, Implored your highness' pardon, and set forth A deep repentance.
I cannot find it.
If not, elsewhere they meet with charity.
His grace looks cheerfully and smooth this morning.
We will go together.
I do serve you in this business.
Think not, thou noble Roman, That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome.
Finish, good lady.
Let floods o'erswell and fiends for food howl on!
Let’s to billiards.
You shall not find, Though you be therein curious, the least cause For what you seem to fear.
Abhorred villain!
Perhaps some merchant hath invited him, And from the mart he’s somewhere gone to dinner.
How now!
Seek!
Back, slave, or I will break thy pate across.
All take hands.
Go, and bring them.
Oh, I am spoiled, undone by villains!
Virtue that transgresses is but patched with sin, and sin that amends is but patched with virtue.
Come, Dolabella, see High order in this great solemnity.
Off with his son George’s head!
I warrant you.
Impart.
With him I sent the queen, My reason all the same, and they are ready Tomorrow or at further space t' appear Where you shall hold your session.
I myself could make A chough of as deep chat.
I pray you tell Benedick of it and hear what he will say.
Art not thou the Lady Olivia’s fool?
She is low-voiced.
Tomorrow morning come you to my house, And since you could not be my son-in-law, Be yet my nephew.
For when thou gavest them the rod, and put’st down thine own breeches,            Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teach thy fool to lie.
Do thou meet me presently at the harbor.—Come hither.
Nay, but I bar tonight.
What infinite heart’s ease Must kings neglect that private men enjoy?
Wisely and slow.
Though now this grainèd face of mine be hid In sap-consuming winter’s drizzled snow, And all the conduits of my blood froze up, Yet hath my night of life some memory, My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left, My dull deaf ears a little use to hear.
Art thou there, Diomed?
Not a jot, not a jot.
What, shall I find you here?
You will lose this wager, my lord.
Do you triumph?
You have little cause to say so.
But, God be thanked, there is no need of me, And much I need to help you, were there need.
O, lady, lady, shame would have it hid.
Hey, Mountain, hey!
Briefly, I dwell by the Capitol.
Come on.
Who will go with me?
Therefore tremble and depart.
Is he arrayed?
Live, Brutus!
My cake is dough, but I’ll in among the rest, Out of hope of all but my share of the feast.
There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisbe that will never please.
And she goes down at twelve.
Fire!
And you, sir.
I am sick and sullen.
I doubt it not, sir, but you will curse your wooing.— Neighbor, this is a gift very grateful, I am sure of it.
Tis done by me, and ends in “Margaret.”   Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself.
This is too long.
Get me a taper in my study, Lucius.
Not a whit, Touchstone.
The Duke’s in council and your noble self, I am sure, is sent for.
To a rope’s end, sir, and to that end am I returned.
Saw you anything?
Well, get thee gone.
He hath not told us of the captain yet.
And if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
Confined together In the same fashion as you gave in charge, Just as you left them, all prisoners, sir, In the line grove which weather-fends your cell.
Tis sport to maul a runner.
And your experience makes you sad.
Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
Who can arraign me for ’t?
Yet is this no charm for the toothache.—Old Signior, walk aside with me.
Patience, good sir.
Hear me, Beatrice— Talk with a man out at a window!
I do beseech you To understand my purposes aright.
They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
A piece of work that will make sick men whole.
As it determines, so Dissolve my life!
is ’t not perfect conscience To quit him with this arm?
My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep.
Who did strike out the light?
Well.
You’ll ask me why I rather choose to have A weight of carrion flesh than to receive Three thousand ducats.
Nor I neither.
Where’s Antony?
Perforce I must confess I thought you lord of more true gentleness.
tis not so now.
God 'i' good e'en.
Come, come, You’ll never meet a more sufficient man.
You will answer, “The slaves are ours.” So do I answer you.
How say you now?
Your Highness told me I should post before.
Calls my lord?
Will you help?—An ass-head, and a coxcomb, and a knave, a thin-faced knave, a gull!
To make you answer truly to your name.
At Pembroke, or at Ha'rfordwest in Wales.
Not once, nor twice, but twenty times you have.
Well, I will forget the condition of my estate to rejoice in yours.
Ay, dread Queen.
Make the trial of it in any constant question.
If he have caught the Benedick, it will cost him a thousand pound ere a be cured.
Arise.
That is he.
Who knows the Lord Protector’s mind herein?
What mar you then, sir?
I pray you tell your brother how well I counterfeited.
Why, this is evident to any formal capacity.
She Phoebes me.
Great thing of us forgot!— Speak, Edmund, where’s the king?
But little.
And how does your content Tender your own good fortune?
I will, my lord.
O woe!
From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports.
It is the quality o' th' climate.
It is the more like to be feigned.
Are his wits safe?
All hail, Macbeth!
What man is that?
It is almost morning, And yet I am sure you are not satisfied Of these events at full.
Upon this hint I spake.
Will Caesar speak?
She made good view of me, indeed so much That sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue, For she did speak in starts distractedly.
Is there no respect of place, persons, nor time in you?
Ergo, Master Launcelot.
Abhorrèd slave, Which any print of goodness wilt not take, Being capable of all ill!
Tis almost morning.
And brief, good mother, for I am in haste.
I can see yet without spectacles, and I see no such matter.
God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
The one of them contains my picture, Prince.
Who cannot want the thought how monstrous It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain To kill their gracious father?
Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art.
He shall stay my leisure.
What, what?
I am alone the villain of the earth, And feel I am so most.
O Regan, she hath tied Sharp-toothed unkindness, like a vulture, here.
Come, throw it o'er my face. 
Where is my love?
That ever holds.
Here, here will I remain With worms that are thy chamber maids.
Should you do so, my lord, My speech should fall into such vile success Which my thoughts aimed not at.
I do repent The tedious minutes I with her have spent.
How now, sirrah!
We are men, my liege.
Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning shall not shame me.
Why, he drinks you with facility your Dane dead drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain.
Yet Edmund was beloved.
Speak.
Such a one Am I to fear, or none.
I do the wrong, and first begin to brawl.
Zounds, I’ll entreat no more.
Do not abuse me.
Roderigo killed?
Let us to the great supper.
My husband lost his life to get the crown, And often up and down my sons were tossed For me to joy, and weep, their gain and loss.
With him is Gratiano gone along.
O, my lord, You said that idle weeds are fast in growth.
I have said.
Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar?
Well, to our work alive.
O, thou well-skilled in curses, stay awhile, And teach me how to curse mine enemies.
I am tame, sir.
To me it is a prison.
Give him this deed, And let him sign it.
Oh, think’st thou we shall ever meet again?
Thanks, you the valiant of this warlike isle That so approve the Moor.
Dismiss me?
With the earl, sir, here within.
What shall I call thee when thou art a man?
He is a very proper man.
The foul practice Hath turned itself on me.
I have not art to reckon my groans, but that I love thee best, oh, most best, believe it.
Intend a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio, as in love of your brother’s honor, who hath made this match, and his friend’s reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid, that you have discovered thus.
Imperious Caesar, dead and turned to clay, Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Serve God.
Look, Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
I will confess it to all the 'orld.
Courteous lord, one word.
Lo thee!
Think you so?
What is the matter, masters?— Honest Iago, that looks dead with grieving, Speak, who began this?
If you deny me, fie upon your law— There is no force in the decrees of Venice.
The love that follows us sometime is our trouble, Which still we thank as love.
Go seek him out, speak fair, and bring the body Into the chapel.
The Prince’s fool!
It eats and sleeps and hath such senses As we have, such.
I' faith, coz, ’tis he.
I am agreed, and would I had given him the best horse inv Padua to begin his wooing that would thoroughly woo her, wed her, and bed her, and rid the house of her!
Get me ink and paper, And hire post horses.
You’ll heat my blood.
O my brother’s child!
Tis partly my own fault, Which death or absence soon shall remedy.
And my help.
What sights, my lord?
Do so, and after two days I will discharge thee.
Jove shield thee well for this!
And I.
And I remember the wooing of a peascod instead of her, from whom I took two cods and, giving her them again, said with weeping tears, “Wear these for my sake.” We that are true lovers run into strange capers.
Baptista is a noble gentleman, To whom my father is not all unknown, And were his daughter fairer than she is, She may more suitors have, and me for one.
Nay, that’s certain.
Hold, sir, for God’s sake!
Where runn’st thou so fast?
Take to you no hard thoughts.
Who’s that?
Oh, here it is.
I do confess my fault, And do submit me to Your Highness' mercy.
Hymen from heaven brought her, Yea, brought her hither, That thou mightst join her hand with his Whose heart within his bosom is.
And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
What’s the matter?
His eyes are red as fire with weeping.
What features?
Well, Petruchio, this has put me in heart.
I am sure you both of you remember me.
We have store to do ’t, And they have earned the waste.
I’ll read the writing.
How now, Roderigo!
Saint Valentine is past.
I hate the word, As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee.
Bear with him, Brutus.
Thou didst drink The stale of horses and the gilded puddle Which beasts would cough at.
The madly used Malvolio.”  Did he write this?
A solemn air and the best comforter To an unsettled fancy cure thy brains, Now useless, boiled within thy skull.—There stand, For you are spell-stopped.—   Mine eyes, ev'n sociable to the show of thine, Fall fellowly drops.
Three times today my foot-cloth horse did stumble, And started when he looked upon the Tower, As loath to bear me to the slaughterhouse.
Her husband, knave.
Sir, I have not you by the hand.
Methinks you’re better spoken.
What ish my nation?
Your Majesty says very true.
When the mind’s free, The body’s delicate.
Be not afeard.
I’ll join with black despair against my soul And to myself become an enemy.
Or shall I say her uncle?
And some have greatness thrust upon them.” Heaven restore thee!
Aroint thee, witch!” the rump-fed runnion cries.
Oh, that’s a brave man.
What would my potent master?
His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights, Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!— Keeper, I prithee sit by me awhile.
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and presently.
If you went in pain, master, this knave would go sore.
Sister, where thou?
Sconce” call you it?
Not in this land shall he remain uncaught.
Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts, Keep his brain fuming.
We shall find a time, Audrey.
Good night, lieutenant, I must to the watch.
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
 “Lord Hamlet is a prince, he’s out of your league.
You bring me out.
Madam, I heard her speak.
Peace, ho!
Will you be patient?
Little” again?
For this night, to bed, and dream on the event.
Look, love, what envious streaks Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east.
I had rather to adopt a child than get it.— Come hither, Moor.
Put off your maiden blushes, avouch the thoughts of your heart with the looks of an empress, take me by the hand, and say “Harry of England, I am thine,” which word thou shalt no sooner bless mine ear withal, but I will tell 
You were kneeled to and importuned otherwise By all of us, and the fair soul herself Weighed between loathness and obedience, at Which end o' th' beam should bow.
What handkerchief?
But yet for all that, an if she did not hate him deadly, she would love him dearly.
It sounds no more, and sure, it waits upon Some god o' th' island.
In troth, ’tis morning.
The oats have eaten the horses.
Not I, believe me.
And indeed it takes From our achievements, though performed at height, The pith and marrow of our attribute.
If your Majesties is remembered of it, the Welshmen did good service in a garden where leeks did grow, wearing leeks in their Monmouth caps, which, your Majesty know, to this hour is an honorable badge of the service.
You kill me to deny it.
Is it new and old too?
Indeed?
You may think perchance that I think you are in love.
Most like a gentleman.
When I do name him, let it be thy part To praise him more than ever man did merit.
How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
 is he coming home?
Say that the last I spoke was “Antony,” And word it, prithee, piteously.
The spirit of my father grows strong in me, and I will no longer endure it.
I do not know dat.
Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar, I have not slept.
Now heaven help him!
Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind, says, “Suum, mun, nonny.” Dauphin my boy, my boy, cessez.
Wilt thou know Th' effect of what I wrote?
No, by my life and soul!
Where dwell you, pretty youth?
Thou look’st cheerly, and I’ll be with thee quickly.
What mean your graces?
Wherefore weep I then?
Oh, banish me, my lord, but kill me not!
You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting, With most admired disorder.
Yes, Shylock, I will seal unto this bond.
Ha!
Calphurnia!
My lord, I know not what the matter is, but to my judgment your highness is not entertained with that ceremonious affection as you were wont.
So get you hence in peace.
What private griefs they have, alas, I know not, That made them do it.
No, indeed, sir; the Lady Olivia has no folly.
Come, sirs.
Run one before And let the Queen know of our gests.
Are you our daughter?
He knows not what he says, and vain it is That we present us to him.
They say this town is full of cozenage, As nimble jugglers that deceive the eye, Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind, Soul-killing witches that deform the body, Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks, And many suchlike liberties of sin.
He did bewray his practice, and received This hurt you see striving to apprehend him.
Then tell me, if I get your daughter’s love, What dowry shall I have with her to wife?
Do so.
Therefore let Benedick, like covered fire, Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly.
With Cassio, mistress.
It is now two o'clock.
Dost thou hold there still?
For the which I hear what they say of him.
Neither to you nor any one, having no witness to confirm my speech.
Come your ways.
No cock of mine.
Ready.
I’ll humbly signify what in his name, That magical word of war, we have effected
Throw physic to the dogs; I’ll none of it.
Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them?
Seek it out.
Tut, I have lost myself.
Which else were shame, that then necessity Will call discreet proceeding.
What other bond Than secret Romans that have spoke the word And will not palter?
Post to Salisbury.
Why came I hither but to that intent?
I say unto thee, I bid thy master cutout the gown, but I did not bid him cut it to pieces.
I see the ruin of my house.
No more than from my soul I mourn for yours.
It should be—But he is drowned, and these are devils.
Count Claudio?
Last night she slept not, nor tonight she shall not.
Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here.
And may not young men die as well as old?
Fetch that gallant hither.
And all my armor laid into my tent?
When did she send thee?
I have done ill, Of which I do accuse myself so sorely That I will joy no more.
Swords out, and tilting one at other’s breasts In opposition bloody.
Your eyes do menace me.
And did you see the handkerchief?
The last she spake Was “Antony, most noble Antony!” Then in the midst a tearing groan did break The name of Antony.
I forgive you the praise.
I had rather be a dog and bay the moon Than such a Roman.
Why,
It cannot be.
I looked not for you yet, nor am provided For your fit welcome.
Pish for thee, Iceland dog, Thou prick-eared cur of Iceland!
I’ll have no speaking.
And so falls it out With Rivers, Vaughan, Grey; and so ’twill do With some men else that think themselves as safe As thou and I, who, as thou know’st, are dear To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
Tut, she’s a lamb, a dove, a fool to him!
Too well what love women to men may owe.
For as thou urgest justice, be assured Thou shalt have justice more than thou desirest.
Was not Count John here at supper?
No.
 “When the man dies, let the inheritance descend unto the daughter.” Gracious lord, claim what is yours.
A fig!
Your friends at Pomfret, they do need the priest; Your Honor hath no shriving work in hand.
Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell.
It ripens towards it.
And he’s gone.
Put on your nightgown.
If thou more murmur’st, I will rend an oak And peg thee in his knotty entrails till Thou hast howled away twelve winters.
She speaks poniards, and every word stabs.
But if you do refuse to marry me, You’ll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
But it would better fit your honor to change your mind.
I prithee, boy, run to the senate house.
Fled to his house amazed.
I have heard that Julius Caesar Grew fat with feasting there.
O sir, such a life with such a wife were strange!
O, full of danger is the duke of Gloucester, And the queen’s sons and brothers haught and proud, And were they to be ruled, and not to rule, This sickly land might solace as before.
Nay, I’ll come.
So will it fare with Claudio.
But if these— As I am sure they do—bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valor The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen, What need we any spur but our own cause To prick us to redress?
It is no hidden virtue in him.
Is ’t possible that on so little acquaintance you should like her?
Fathered he is, and yet he’s fatherless.
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
O, good sir, I do.
Then let thy love be younger than thyself, Or thy affection cannot hold the bent.
 the snake’s an odd snake.
Thus I conceive by him.
Ah ha!
Tis very strange.
Harp on it still shall I till heart-strings break.
For those that mingle reason with your passion Must be content to think you old, and so— But she knows what she does.
Do so.
Come on, sir.
As love is, my lord, before it loves.
Vex not his prescience.
Art thou afeard?
The Duke in council?
Farewell, my Desdemona.
Romeo slew him; he slew Mercutio.
Saw you the king today, my lord of Derby?
Fly, my lord, fly.
to fool) Is thy lady within?
Fathers that wear rags  Do make their children blind.
Never trust me, then.
I must and will have Katherine to my wife.
Claribel.
It shall be to your good, for my father’s house and all the revenue that was old Sir Rowland’s will I estate upon you, and here live and die a shepherd.
Urge me no more, I shall forget myself.
And that distilled by magic sleights Shall raise such artificial sprites As by the strength of their illusion Shall draw him on to his confusion.
Nay, that’s not your way.
They swore you did.
Have I the aspic in my lips?
Faith, niece, you tax Signor Benedick too much, but he’ll be meet with you, I doubt it not.
And so no doubt he is, my gracious madam.
I’ll tell the news.
The Duke himself, Or any of my brothers of the state, Cannot but feel this wrong as ’twere their own.
If you prove a mutineer, the next tree.
But, for your conscience?
Oh, my heart bleeds To think o' th' teen that I have turned you to, Which is from my remembrance!
Looked he or red or pale, or sad or merrily?
Unless I have mista'en his colors much, Which well I am assured I have not done, His regiment lies half a mile, at least, South from the mighty power of the king.
What is thy name, young man?
Howe'er thou art a fiend, A woman’s shape doth shield thee.
But, as I can learn, He hearkens after prophecies and dreams, And from the crossrow plucks the letter  And says a wizard told him that by “G” His issue disinherited should be.
The king, sir— Ay, sir, what of him?
Oh, the more angel she, And you the blacker devil!
Hadst thou done so, The kings that have revolted, and the soldier That has this morning left thee, would have still Followed thy heels.
We will speak further.
I know not, sir.
If not, assure yourself I will seek satisfaction of you.
This is the air-drawn dagger which you said Led you to Duncan.
What did he when thou saw’st him?
Portia, forgive me this enforcèd wrong, And in the hearing of these many friends I swear to thee, even by thine own fair eyes Wherein I see myself—     Mark you but that!
In the meantime, Let me be thought too busy in my fears— As worthy cause I have to fear I am— And hold her free, I do beseech your honor.
Though we have spent our harvest of this king, We are to reap the harvest of his son.
Fetch me this herb, and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can swim a league.
The powers of the kingdom approach apace.
Well, ’tis not so, my Lord High Constable.
No shame but mine.
Say, if th' hadst rather hear it from our mouths, Or from our masters'.
Madam, the young gentleman of the Count Orsino’s is returned.
She’s like a liar gone to burning hell.
O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease!
But do you hear, sir, have you married my daughter without asking my goodwill?
Our reasons are so full of good regard That were you, Antony, the son of Caesar, You should be satisfied.
I pray thee, cease thy counsel, Which falls into mine ears as profitless As water in a sieve.
Thrice the brinded cat hath mewed.
My lord, I do protest—    O, do not swear!
So please you, we will stand and watch your pleasure.
I tell thee, I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.
The labor we delight in physics pain.
Nay, but I know who loves him.
I warrant you, my lord.
If it be you that stir these daughters' hearts Against their father, fool me not so much To bear it tamely.
And come you now with “knocking at the gate”?
The foul’st best fits My latter part of life.
Your father was ever virtuous, and holy men at their death have good inspirations.
O, welcome, father!
What’s he that now is going out of door?
I have ’t.
O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers.
In cunning I must draw my sword upon you.
Damned as thou art, thou hast enchanted her!
God keep your Lordship in that gracious mind.
Yea, sir, we hope.
These time ambles withal.
I warrant her rags and the 
Let wantons light of heart Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels.
My name is Pistol called.
You shall not gauge me By what we do tonight.
Life and these lips have long been separated.
I know you could not lack, I am certain on ’t, Very necessity of this thought, that I, Your partner in the cause ’gainst which he fought, Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars Which fronted mine own peace.
No, my lord.
Room!
Farewell.
It curvets unseasonably.
Welcome, gentlemen!
Be gentle to her.
Only in the world I fill up a place which may be better supplied when I have made it empty.
Tom’s a-cold.
Therefore he hates me.
Lady, were you her bedfellow last night?
Shylock, albeit I neither lend nor borrow By taking nor by giving of excess, Yet to supply the ripe wants of my friend, I’ll break a custom.
Yet leave our cousin Katherine here with us.
The wager thou hast won, and I will add Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns, Another dowry to another daughter, For she is changed as she had never been.
But I am sent to find those persons whose names are here writ, and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ.
No, lad.
Most happy!
Tush, I will stir about, And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife.
At thy request, monster, I will do reason, any reason.— Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.
I prithee speak to me as to thy thinkings, As thou dost ruminate, and give thy worst of thoughts The worst of words.
I hoped there was no need to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet.
How parted he with thee?
So that by my foes, sir I profit in the knowledge of myself, and by my friends, I am abused.
What, were you snarling all before I came, Ready to catch each other by the throat, And turn you all your hatred now on me?
Is it so brave a lass?
My affections Are then most humble.
There, sir, stop.
Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio, I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
Call, good Mercutio.
Dispatch.
No passage?
Does he rave?
But thus, I trust, you will not marry her.
Oh, that I served that lady And might not be delivered to the world, Till I had made mine own occasion mellow, What my estate is.
But, room, fairy!
I would have such a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant.
What hast thou found?
Think you but that I know our state secure, I would be so triumphant as I am?
Oh, you and I have heard our fathers say, There was a Brutus once that would have brooked Th' eternal devil to keep his state in Rome As easily as a king.
There thou shouldst be; By this great clatter, one of the greatest note Seems bruited.
We will proceed no further in this business.
What wouldst thou write of me, if thou should’st praise me?
This is above all strangeness.
Down from the waist they are centaurs, though women all above.
What villain touched his body, that did stab, And not for justice?
You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should.
Why, man?
How now, Lord Stanley, what’s the news?
Welcome, my lord.
You are he, you are he.
I will say nothing.
Good night, my lord.
If I be waspish, best beware my sting.
Take that, and that.
I’ll do ’t.
Thither will I invite the duke and all’s contented followers.
Every one prepare To follow this fair corse unto her grave.
Well then, sustain me.
When was it she last walked?
And so I am, I am.
To prayers, to prayers, all lost!
For when she saw— Which never shall be found—you did suspect She had disposed with Caesar, and that your rage Would not be purged, she sent you word she was dead.
Have by some surgeon, Shylock, on your charge, To stop his wounds lest he do bleed to death.
His backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract.
Twas a color he never liked.
Therefore prepare to die.
Go to.
From me he got it.
Your brother—no, no brother—yet the son— Yet not the son, I will not call him son— Of him I was about to call his father Hath heard your praises, and this night he means To burn the lodging where you use to lie, And you within it.
Here they’ll be, man.
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
Why do you make such faces?
Then be ’t so, my good lord.— How does the king?
Post back with speed, and tell him what hath chanced.
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me.
You do me wrong to take me out o' th' grave.
Our friends all stay for you.
Ne'er a fantastical knave of them all shall flout me out of my calling. 
Hie, make haste, Make haste.
O life!
How much better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping!
Why, then you must.
I confess the cape.
How that might change his nature, there’s the question.
And yet to win her, all the world to nothing!
Oh, fie upon them!
When I was with him I have heard him swear To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen, That he would rather have Antonio’s flesh Than twenty times the value of the sum That he did owe him.
I am armed and well prepared.— Give me your hand, Bassanio.
They’ll kill us.
For certain she is dead, and by strange manner.
No, I will not cast away my physic but on those that are sick.
He longs not for the dawning as we do. 
The weary way hath made you melancholy.
Oh, excellent!
His coward lips did from their color fly, And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world Did lose his luster.
Her love to both Would each to other and all loves to both Draw after her.
Will you come to bed, my lord?
Why, Fool?
An it had not fallen flat-long.
Be patient, for you shall remain with us.
Madam, if you could find out but a man To bear a poison, I would temper it, That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof, Soon sleep in quiet.
No, sir.
Kind gentlemen, let’s go see poor Cassio dressed.— Come, mistress, you must tell ’s another tale.
Well, well.
That was in thy rage.
To whom do you speak this?
Here is the number of the slaughtered French.
Never believe it.
We two, my lord, Will guard your person while you take your rest And watch your safety.
Nor go neither.
Commend me to him and tell him I will not fail him at supper, for indeed he hath made great preparation.
Fare thee well, dame.
Come on.
What news, my lord?
If I do find him fit, I’ll move your suit And seek to effect it to my uttermost.
I’ll talk with this good fellow.
That is because the traitor murderer lives.
Do we all holy rites.
O bitter consequence That Edward still should live “true noble prince”!
Came you from Padua, from Bellario?
He’s worth no more.
Up, up, and see The great doom’s image!
I could be well moved if I were as you.
Soft, sir!
Art thou gone so, love, lord?
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Of a strange nature is the suit you follow, Yet in such rule that the Venetian law Cannot impugn you as you do proceed.—   Ay, so he says.
Fetch me an iron crow.
Worthy Othello, I am hurt to danger.
Get him to bed, and let his hurt be looked to.
No, my lord, not I. Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear That makes thee strangle thy propriety.
How hast thou lost thy breath?
Her length of sickness, with what else more serious Importeth thee to know, this bears.
Wouldst thou aught with me?
But had he such a chain of thee or no?
No.
Tell the hot duke that Lear— No, but not yet.
The near in blood, The nearer bloody.
Long live the king!
I was born to speak all mirth and no  matter.
Our bodies are our gardens, to the which our wills are gardeners.
He is a proper man’s picture, but alas, who can converse with a dumb show?
Petruchio, patience.
Well, but to my choice.
Was the crown offered him thrice?
Go you and tell my daughter I would speak with her.
Be not afraid.
I must remove Some thousands of these logs and pile them up, Upon a sore injunction.
O gull!
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath.
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her favors?
I know it by their pale and deadly looks.
Slanders, sir.
My cousin’s a fool, and thou art another.
Fear it, my dear sister, And keep you in the rear of your affection, Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Besides, the king’s name is a tower of strength Which they upon the adverse party want.
She knows the heat of a luxurious bed.
Well then, if ever I thank any man, I’ll thank you.
I am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine.
The children live whose fathers thou hast slaughtered, Ungoverned youth, to wail it in their age; The parents live whose children thou hast butchered, Old barren plants, to wail it with their age.
No, sir.
To these injunctions every one doth swear That comes to hazard for my worthless self.
In God’s name, what art thou?
The strangers all are gone.
Yet he hath ever but slenderly known himself.
Villain, I say, knock me at this gate And rap me well, or I’ll knock your knave’s pate.
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?
Fare you well.
Thus Rosalind of many parts By heavenly synod was devised, Of many faces, eyes, and hearts To have the touches dearest prized.
The king and prince at prayers.
Many a man his life hath sold But my outside to behold.
What country, friends, is this?
Fly, masters!
No, by this hand.
Thou art a fellow of a good respect.
O noble Emperor, do not fight by sea!
It shall advantage more than do us wrong.
Hark!
Come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
A man, young lady!
So much for him.
And friends with Caesar.
Mend the instance, shepherd.
Tis a wild night.
How now?
O my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee wear thy heart in a scarf. 
Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
We shall chide downright, if I longer stay.
Be wise, and get you home.
Sir, this should be answered.
Where’s Antonio, then?
Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
Albeit you have deserved High commendation, true applause, and love, Yet such is now the duke’s condition That he misconsters all that you have done.
So thrive my soul— A thousand times good night!
Dream on, dream on, of bloody deeds and death.
He shall have merely justice and his bond.
Where art thou, proud Demetrius?
But did you ever tell him she was false?
I will give thee mine.
Moneys is your suit.
What was he that you followed with your sword?
A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell.
Hero itself can blot out Hero’s virtue.
Thou sayst his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings.
Thus have you heard me severed from my bliss; That by misfortunes was my life prolonged To tell sad stories of my own mishaps.
Kind sister, thanks.
Who, Hero?
If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
Who can control his fate?
Look to ’t.
He’s coming hither—now, i' th' night, i' th' haste, And Regan with him.
Our queen and all our elves come here anon.
Good morrow, masters.
These words are not mine.
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue and so good a continuer.
Poor men alone?
Marry, they say my uncle grew so fast That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old.
What were these?
Who hath he left behind him general?
Nor know I aught By me that’s said or done amiss this night, Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice, And to defend ourselves it be a sin When violence assails us.
Moved,” in good time.
The Dauphin longs for morning.
What, will you have them weep our horses' blood?
What’s the matter?
But, sirrah, mark, we use To say the dead are well.
Five shillings to one on ’t, with any man that knows the statutes, he may stay him—marry, not without the Prince be willing, for indeed the watch ought to offend no man, and it is an offense to stay a man against his will.
And so return to you, and nothing else?
Malcolm!
And so it is, truly, and very notably discharged.
Say’st me so, friend?
Who calls?
I know him; he wears a lock.
That I love her, I feel.
It is an accustomed action with her to seem thus washing her hands.
And there the snake throws her enameled skin, Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in.
None.
How fine my master is!
The fiend is strong within him.
The cease of majesty Dies not alone, but, like a gulf, doth draw What’s near it with it.
Love news, in faith?  
Let me be your servant.
I think he thinks upon the savage bull.
What is, my lord?
How shall we try it?
And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot To mark the full-fraught man and best endued With some suspicion.
It is not nor it cannot come to good, But break, my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you, and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny.
I urged you further, then you scratched your head And too impatiently stamped with your foot.
Tis here.
Farewell, great chief.
Here.
I tell you true.
I pray you mar no more of my verses with reading them ill- favoredly. 
Nay, good, be patient.
Come on, sir.
The funeral baked meats Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
What would my lord?
More shall they speak, for now I am bent to know, By the worst means, the worst.
I will not disclose 'em.
In some bush?
Nay, how will you do for a husband?
We will ourselves provide.
Why, thy horn is a foot, and so long am I, at the least.
At night we’ll feast together.
I will acquit you.
Let’s take leave of him.
She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner.
Give me audience, good madam.
Why, wherefore ask you this?
Me, uncle?
Oh, horrible, oh, horrible, most horrible!
Then have at you with my wit.
Your Grace may do your pleasure.
Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves”!
That she may long live here, God say amen.
But now, Baptista, to your younger daughter.
It is “never tire.” Oh.
Longer, longer.
Shall we to th' court?
You understand me?
Come, in what key shall a man take you to go in the song?
Haply when I shall wed That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry Half my love with him, half my care and duty.
Call up the right Master Constable.
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do your mother’s commandment.
And have you mercy too!
An ’twere to me, I should be mad at it.
Get thee gone.
Whence came you, sir?
I hear the news, my lord.
I say again, give out That Anne my queen is sick and like to die.
Farewell.
Thou dar’st as well be hanged.
Why, we are still handling our ewes, and their fells, you know, are greasy.
But yet, alas, stood I within his grace, I would prefer him to a better place.
I beseech you, follow straight.
Counterfeit, I assure you.
How now, you dog?
The town will rise.
Who is next?
In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
I commend my duty to your lordship.
O Charmian, I will never go from hence.
I’ll none of it.
I do not understand.
I mean, to go, sir, to enter.
Lovers, to bed.
Juliet!—Fast, I warrant her, she.— Why, lamb!
Give her this key, and tell her in the desk That’s cover’d o'er with Turkish tapestry There is a purse of ducats.
So, let me hear you speak.
I have so often blushed to acknowledge him that now I am brazed to it.
I had it of him.
I am never merry when I hear sweet music.
Am I not stayed for, Cinna?
Sir, grieve not you.
 I have challenged Claudio, and either he’ll accept the challenge or admit he’s a coward.
Would that alone o' love he would detain, So he would keep fair quarter with his bed.
You know not what you do.
Well, sir, get you in.
Give me your hand, sir.
Though I wish thy death, I will not be the executioner.
To eat us hungerly, and when they are full, They belch us.
If thou beest Trinculo, come forth.
Thou hast hit it.
All blessed secrets, All you unpublished virtues of the earth, Spring with my tears.
He’s friends with Caesar, In state of health, thou say’st, and, thou say’st, free.
And made your other love, Demetrius— Who even but now did spurn me with his foot— To call me goddess, nymph, divine, and rare, Precious, celestial?
He that conceals him, death.
This speed of Caesar’s Carries beyond belief.
I cry your worships' mercy, heartily.—I beseech your worship’s name.
A commodity in question, I warrant you.—Come, we’ll obey you.
I have watched ere now All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
From me, whose love was of that dignity That it went hand in hand even with the vow I made to her in marriage, and to decline Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor To those of mine.
Wilt thou, Silvius?
Tis a hooded valor, and when it appears, it will bate.
Le Roy?
The heart is sorely charged.
Be better at thy leisure.
Speak to me home.
How can these things in me seem scorn to you, Bearing the badge of faith to prove them true?
That she brought me up, I likewise give her most humble thanks.
Where are thy two sons?
Retire thee, go where thou art billeted.
She is not well.
Forbear, and eat no more.
Let him take thee And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians!
Look what I have.
No, my good lord.
He comes to kill my heart.
My lord, good morrow.
Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
Were ’t my fitness To let these hands obey my blood, They are apt enough to dislocate and tear Thy flesh and bones.
thieves!
Well, I’ll go hide the body in some hole Till that the duke give order for his burial.
Speak you so gently?
All there is thine.
And from thy hated presence part I so.
With the same 'havior that your passion bears Goes on my master’s grief.
Lady, you know no rules of charity, Which renders good for bad, blessings for curses.
And ’tis great pity that the noble Moor Should hazard such a place as his own second With one of an ingraft infirmity.
We must out and talk.
In his tongue.
But how should Prospero Be living and be here?
Do not you meddle.
I do remember well where I should be, And there I am.
It is gone.
Thou art a cobbler, art thou?
Amen.
Machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all ruinous disorders follow us disquietly to our graves.
I will the banner from a trumpet take And use it for my haste.
I dare say you love him not so ill to wish him here alone, howsoever you speak this to feel other men’s minds.
In honest plainness thou hast heard me say My daughter is not for thee.
Let some of my people have a special care of him.
So Chrish save me, I will cut off your head.
Did this companion with the saffron face Revel and feast it at my house today Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut And I denied to enter in my house?
How say you, sir?
I pray you, good Bassanio, let me know it.
This, and Saint George to boot—What think’st thou, Norfolk?
His very genius hath taken the infection of the device, man.
Come, come, we fear the worst.
Or image of that horror?
Mock not, Enobarbus.
But, by your favor, how near’s the other army?
Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear it.
He’s fortified against any denial. 
Ay, marry, was ’t, and he put it by thrice, every time gentler than other, and at every putting-by mine honest neighbors shouted.
He died As one that had been studied in his death To throw away the dearest thing he owed As ’twere a careless trifle.
Moreover, urge his hateful luxury And bestial appetite in change of lust, Which stretched to their servants, daughters, wives, Even where his raging eye or savage heart, Without control, lusted to make his prey.
You have prevailed.
Would she were hearsed at my foot and the ducats in her coffin!
And therefore tell me, most fair Katherine, will you have me?
The moon shines bright.
Again!
Therefore perpend, my princess, and give ear.
Nor know I aught But that he’s well and will be shortly here.
Ay, sir, it is too true, God help the while.
Talk no more.
Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
That I did for him.
What should I say to you?
The residue of your fortune Go to my cave and tell me.—Good old man, Thou art right welcome as thy master is.
For many miles about There’s scarce a bush.
My lord shall never rest, I’ll watch him tame and talk him out of patience.
I would these dewy tears were from the ground.
I dare not, dear, Dear my lord, pardon, I dare not, Lest I be taken.
Bless the isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello!
But have I fall'n, or no?
If love have touched you, naught remains but so
Has he never before sounded you in this business?
My father’s love is enough to honor him.
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
I’ll not deny him anything I have, No, not my body, nor my husband’s bed.
When you sued staying, Then was the time for words.
Most certain.
Can I bear that with patience, And not my husband’s secrets?
 whoever strikes first, I’ll run him through with my sword, as sure as I’m a soldier.
Pardon, my lord.
This shall determine that.
Infirm of purpose!
Some dungeon.
Never, my lord.
No, truly, but in friendly recompense.
There is too great testimony in your complexion that it was a passion of earnest.
I marvel our mild husband Not met us on the way.
Take it, brave York.
Tell me, thou villain, where is my son Lucentio?
After so long grief, such nativity!
But now mine eyes, Which I have darted at thee, hurt thee not.
I will not say you shall see a masque, but if you do then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on Black Monday last at six o'clock i' th' morning falling out that year on Ash Wednesday was four year in th' afternoon.
O, let me speak!
Look in the almanac.
Oh, ’tis treason!
Threescore and ten I can remember well, Within the volume of which time I have seen Hours dreadful and things strange, but this sore night Hath trifled former knowings.
A dog of that house shall move me to stand.
As he was fortunate, I rejoice at it.
Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.
If haply you my father do suspect An instrument of this your calling back, Lay not your blame on me.
Prepare the body then, and follow us.
Where is my gracious lord of Canterbury?
My lord, you nod.
Bring me no more reports.
I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth.
Pluck up, my heart, and be sad.
My wit’s diseased.
It is the right butter-women’s rank to market.
Lives, sir.
But for the seventh cause.
What should I stay— In this wild world?
I had as lief have my mistress a jade.
Why, sir, he comes not.
Marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown, he plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his throat to cut.
Rise, and lend thine ear.
I am th' unhappy subject of these quarrels.
God be with you.
My Lord Bassanio, since you have found Antonio, We two will leave you.
This is a stem Of that victorious stock, and let us fear The native mightiness and fate of him.
Faith, that was not so well.
Know, my long lord, The marquess Dorset, as I hear, is fled To Richmond, in the parts where he abides.
That light we see is burning in my hall.
He misses not much.
Why, man?
Courage.
Tomorrow shall you bear our full intent Back to our brother England.
Well, as you guess?
What is the matter, husband?
And pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes.
Is this a holiday?
And fixed his eyes upon you?
Yet I profess curing it by counsel.
Now I arise.
Those being all my study, The government I cast upon my brother And to my state grew stranger, being transported And rapt in secret studies.
Know, sir, that I am called Hortensio.
Come, march to wakes and fairs and market towns.
It were a delicate stratagem to shoe A troop of horse with felt.
With what, i' th' name of God?
Where be thy brothers?
They mean this night in Sardis to be quartered.
Take them away.
Rather approach’d too late!
Most noble Caesar!
Marry, on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
I say it is the moon.
On me, that halts and am misshapen thus?
Oh, they are our friends.
My Lord Bassanio gave his ring away Unto the judge that begged it and indeed Deserved it too.
O Caesar, read mine first, for mine’s a suit That touches Caesar nearer.
Yet do I not use my horse for my mistress, or any such proverb so little kin to the purpose.
Then is the world one.
I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep.
Sir, she can turn, and turn, and yet go on, And turn again.
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I love passing well.
Uncharitably with me have you dealt, And shamefully my hopes by you are butchered.
What sayest thou now?
She shows a body rather than a life, A statue than a breather.
What need the bridge much broader than the flood?
And pity to the general wrong of Rome— As fire drives out fire, so pity pity— Hath done this deed on Caesar.
Good Father, I beseech you on my knees, Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
Are they like to take dust, like Mistress Mall’s picture?
Seem they religious?
Make us thy ministers of chastisement, That we may praise thee in the victory!
I have not breathed almost since I did see it.
Here, take away this dish.
Go with me, And in the breath of bitter words let’s smother My damnèd son that thy two sweet sons smothered.
Ay, sir; there are a crew of wretched souls That stay his cure.
Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report.
You sent me for a rope’s end as soon.
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
We are spoiled and yonder he is!
To see no pastime I.
We must to the watch.
It is not seen enough; you should wear it in your cap.
Very well.
So was I when your Highness took his dukedom.
Perchance till after Theseus' wedding day.
I’ll never care what wickedness I do, If this man come to good.
How heavy weighs my lord!
Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
A dream itself is but a shadow.
I thank thee, good Sir John, with all my heart.
I have heard Where many of the best respect in Rome, Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus And groaning underneath this age’s yoke, Have wished that noble Brutus had his eyes.
Well, again.
Hail, gentle sir.
But fish not with this melancholy bait For this fool gudgeon, this opinion.— Come, good Lorenzo.—Fare ye well awhile.
I’ll make thee an example.
But these cannot I command to any utterance of harmony.
Three and three, We’ll hold a feast in great solemnity.
Wherefore to Dover?
O ceremony, show me but thy worth!
Thine, Claudio, thine, I say.
I have undone three tailors.
If any such there be, heaven pardon him!
And this way have you well expounded it.
Farewell, good Salisbury, and good luck go with thee.
Sir, in good faith, or in sincere verity, Under th' allowance of your great aspect, Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire On flickering Phoebus' front—      What mean’st by this?
Let his shames quickly Drive him to Rome.
So to most noble Caesar.
My lord?
To die, to sleep— No more—and by a sleep to say we end The heartache and the thousand natural shocks That flesh is heir to—’tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished!
If I should speak, She would mock me into air.
The cry is still “They come!” Our castle’s strength Will laugh a siege to scorn.
Even a toy in hand here, sir.
Let him kill one first.
So I will, my liege, as I live.
Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads.
Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
Tis so.
Speak to me what thou art.
Here, sir!
Exceedingly, my lord.
The reason that I gather he is mad, Besides this present instance of his rage, Is a mad tale he told today at dinner Of his own doors being shut against his entrance.
Well, I’ll end the song.—Sirs, cover the while; the duke will drink under this tree.—He hath been all this day to look you.
He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven And fire us hence like foxes.
All hail, great master!
Thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe.
Why—after I have cut the egg i' th' middle and eat up the meat—the two crowns of the egg.
What, was I married to her in my dream?
We’ll be friends first.
That done, I will be walking on the works, Repair there to me.
Shall not be long but I’ll be here again.
But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the forest lays claim to you.
O, cry your mercy, sir.—        Tom’s a-cold.
 “Tell Harry of England
Therefore, have done.
Most welcome home!
On a moderate pace I have since arrived but hither.
To this chair bind him.—Villain, thou shalt find— By the kind gods, ’tis most ignobly done To pluck me by the beard.
No, by this heavenly light!
He left behind him myself and a sister, both born in an hour.
If I last in this service, you must case me in leather.
I am afeard there are few die well that die in a battle, for how can they charitably dispose of anything, when blood is their argument?
Would ’t had been done!
Was this fair paper, this most goodly book, Made to write “whore” upon?
Stay, Jaques, stay.
Hereafter, in a better world than this, I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
Oh, then I see that madmen have no ears.
Be aidant and remediate In the good man’s distress.
But who was this?
Come, sir, what letters had you late from France?
I will have none on ’t.
How, how, Cordelia?
Make you a wholesome answer.
Let me be married to three kings in a forenoon and widow them all.
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp, And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee Where thrift may follow fawning.
Go thou.
I will run. 
This is the day wherein I wished to fall By the false faith of him who most I trusted.
Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.
No, faith, I’ll not stay a jot longer.
Thou ’dst never fear the net nor lime, The pitfall nor the gin.
Tranio, you jest.
Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy tongue for saying so.
In truth, I know it is a sin to be a mocker, but he!—why, he hath a horse better than the Neapolitan’s, a better bad habit of frowning than the Count Palatine.
Let go his arm.
Marry, for my part, I think the duke hath lost never a man, but one that is like to be executed for robbing a church, one Bardolph, if your Majesty know the man.
Out, tawny Tartar, out!
Well, we shall see your bearing.
But what prevention?
If Caesar please, our master Will leap to be his friend.
Mistress, both man and master is possessed.
You have loved him well.
What, sigh for the toothache?
What do you here alone?
If die, be brief, That our swift-wingèd souls may catch the king’s, Or, like obedient subjects, follow him To his new kingdom of ne'er-changing night.
And what’s to come of my despisèd time Is naught but bitterness.
What, my gracious lord?
By the eighth hour.
What, must I hold a candle to my shames?
Only give me leave, Unworthy as I am, to follow you.
Give you good morrow, sir.
Let him do his spite.
Pray, sir, be patient.
Oh, it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who for the most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb-shows and noise.
Thou’st spoken right.
And that you would have me to do!
Give me thy hand.
I did hear him groan, Ay, and that tongue of his that bade the Romans Mark him and write his speeches in their books— “Alas,” it cried, “give me some drink, Titinius,” As a sick girl.
And his kinsman too.
Why, we have galls, and though we have some grace, Yet have we some revenge.
Out of my sight!
O wise and upright judge!
But, my good lord— Wherefore should you do this?
Let her be thine, for we Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see That face of hers again.
Dost thou love me?
Be kind and courteous to this gentleman.
If thou rememb’rest not the slightest folly That ever love did make thee run into, Thou hast not loved.
Oh, let the heavens Give him defense against the elements, For I have lost him on a dangerous sea.
There was none such in the army of any sort.
No harm.
If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing old signs.
But is all this for your father?
Ay, sir, in Pisa have I often been, Pisa renownèd for grave citizens.
To Brutus', to Cassius', burn all.
I pray you tell me your remedy.
Prithee, see there!
What raiment will your Honor wear today?
The thane of Fife had a wife.
It shall be so.
Is she so hot a shrew as she’s reported?
That chain will I bestow— Be it for nothing but to spite my wife— Upon mine hostess there.
Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it, Though I alone do feel the injury.
Ah, poor heart, he is so shaked of a burning quotidian tertian that it is most lamentable to behold.
We wait upon your Grace.
But no metal can— No, not the hangman’s axe—bear half the keenness Of thy sharp envy.
Amaze the welkin with your broken staves—
I’ll come to thee straight.
Which is he that killed the deer?
See, my women, Against the blown rose may they stop their nose, That kneeled unto the buds.—Admit him, sir.
What, lamb!
Twill be naught, But let it be.
But, I pray you, let none of your people stir me.
I long To hear the story of your life, which must Take the ear strangely.
I say, it is not lost.
Peter, stay at the gate.
An unauthorized kiss!
Farewell, for I must leave you.
Nay, I beseech you, sir, be not out with me.
Welcome from Mantua.
O, what cause have I, Thine being but a moiety of my moan, To overgo thy woes and drown thy cries!
And let us swear our resolution.
As young as I am, I have observed these three swashers.
Comfort me.
Some to the common pulpits, and cry out, “Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!” People and senators, be not affrighted.
For this reason, if you’ll know
Let us not burden our remembrances with A heaviness that’s gone.
Take not the quarrel from His powerful arm; He needs no indirect or lawless course To cut off those that have offended Him.
When all’s done, You look but on a stool.
I’ll devil-porter it no further.
I have a daughter.
When they are gone, then must I count my gains.
Hoppedance cries in Tom’s belly for two white herring.
At such a time I’ll loose my daughter to him.
Why do you speak so startingly and rash?
Doth not Brutus bootless kneel?
Shed thou no blood, nor cut thou less nor more But just a pound of flesh.
I pray thee, get us some excellent music, for tomorrow night we would have it at the Lady Hero’s chamber window
I do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot, Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove.
Why, no, sir.
Let’s withdraw, my lord.
I am not here.
Give me the gown.
Say boldly.
Whether this be Or be not, I’ll not swear.
Farewell, sweet playfellow.
I am no less in blood than thou art, Edmund.
I shall take it, sir.
Thy father hath his life.
Cousin, thou wast not wont to be so dull.
I will compound this strife.
Madam, I will.
No, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup.
The worms were hallowed that did breed the silk, And it was dyed in mummy which the skillful Conserved of maidens' hearts.
Twenty crowns.
Woo’t tear thyself?
Thou shalt not choose but go.
Thank you.
How dost thou?
The hurt cannot be much.
My very hairs do mutiny, for the white Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them For fear and doting.
Thou canst tell why one’s nose stands i' th' middle on ’s face? 
I cannot be so answer’d.
If justice cannot tame you, she shall ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance.
Oft have I heard of sanctuary men, But sanctuary children, ne'er till now.
Yes, that thou didst.
Spake you of Caesar?
Here’s Decius Brutus.
Thou art a villain!
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep, My dreams presage some joyful news at hand.
I am only sorry  He had no other death’s-man.
Mine would, sir, were I human.
Our fears in Banquo Stick deep, and in his royalty of nature Reigns that which would be feared.
Is it a custom?
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
How now, lady?
Fear not my government.
An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst never draw sword again.
This kindness will I show.
I might call him A thing divine, for nothing natural I ever saw so noble.
Faith, here’s an English tailor come hither for stealing out of a French hose.
 when we’re down and out—often because of our own excesses —we put all the blame on the sun, the moon, and the stars, as if they forced us to be bad, or the heavens compelled us to be villainous or stupid.
Come, Grey.
Give me your arm.
He cannot by the duello avoid it.
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
By th' law of arms thou wast not bound to answer An unknown opposite.
Give me some ink and paper.
Once more, adieu.
I peseech you heartily, scurvy, lousy knave, at my desires, and my requests, and my petitions, to eat, look you, this leek.
Who shall stay you?
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Richard, Earl of Cambridge.
Where remains he?
Help me into some house, Benvolio, Or I shall faint.
But what say you to Thursday?
All-seeing heaven, what a world is this!
Thy loving father, Hamlet.
Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
And I.
Let her witness it.
Be brief, lest that the process of thy kindness Last longer telling than thy kindness' date.
Is he not here?
It seemed she was a queen Over her passion, who, most rebel-like, Sought to be king o'er her.
Fie on thee, wretch.
And that I am he Let me a little show it even in this
Better once than never, for never too late.
Tomorrow, Caesar, I shall be furnished to inform you rightly Both what by sea and land I can be able To front this present time.
I am sorry for my cousin.
Fair princess, you have lost much good sport.
The lady is dead upon mine and my master’s false accusation.
He hath neither Latin, French, nor Italian, and you will come into the court and swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English.
Is not this man jealous?
Be thy mouth or black or white,  Do-de, de-de.
Fled to England?
They say Edgar, his banished son, is with the Earl of Kent in Germany.
Our time does call upon ’s.
I’ll ride home tomorrow, Sir Toby.
This prince hath neither claimed it nor deserved it And therefore, in mine opinion, cannot have it.
Tis with cares.
The Emperor calls Canidius.
 that I was with you at your shop, watching you make her necklace, and that you’re going to deliver it tomorrow.
I knew your father.
Robin Starveling, the tailor?
Shall I deny you?
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death, Have burst their cerements; why the sepulcher,
He sings at grave- making. 
By my soul I swear There is no power in the tongue of man To alter me.
But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway.
Mean you to enjoy him then?
Madam, good night.
Who’s there?
Draw thy tool!
Follow that lord, and look you mock him not.
Content.
O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand?
Ay, a thousand times.—Peter!
Montague!
I am the very man— I’ll see that straight.
Switch and spurs, switch and spurs, or I’ll cry a match.
Alas, good Kate, I will not burden thee, For knowing thee to be but young and light— Too light for such a swain as you to catch, And yet as heavy as my weight should be.
Then he is dead?
A poor virgin, sir, an ill-favored thing, sir, but mine own.
I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her.
There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice Proposing with the Prince and Claudio.
I’ll fight at sea.
We’ll speak with thee at sea.
I durst have denied that before you were so choleric.
Ah, sirrah, a body would think this was well-counterfeited.
Tom will throw his head at them.—Avaunt, you curs!
Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud, Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies, And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine, With repetition of “My Romeo!” It is my soul that calls upon my name.
What think’st thou?
Let our catch be “Thou Knave.” “Hold thy peace, thou knave,” knight?
Caesar sends greeting to the Queen of Egypt, And bids thee study on what fair demands Thou mean’st to have him grant thee.
Thy currish spirit Governed a wolf who, hanged for human slaughter, Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet, And whilst thou layest in thy unhallowed dam Infused itself in thee, for thy desires Are wolvish, bloody, starved, and ravenous.
But where unbruisèd youth with unstuffed brain Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign.
See, doth he breathe?
Here at the door.
I will owe thee an answer for that.
Egypt, thou knew’st too well My heart was to thy rudder tied by th’ strings, And thou shouldst tow me after.
Then let us both be sudden.
Before the days of change, still is it so.
Sent he to Macduff?
Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails.
Come, you look paler and paler.
Tush, tush, man, never fleer and jest at me.
Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but foul breath, and foul breath is noisome.
Well struck!
Good morrow to you both.
Have at you now!
Whom should I knock?
When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?
By my troth, ’s not so good, and I warrant your cousin will say so.
Not in deed, madam, for I can do nothing But what indeed is honest to be done.
Put money enough in your purse.
Nerissa teaches me what to believe.
Marry, your manhood, mew!
Ah, where’s my man?—Give me some aqua vitae.— These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
If thou canst love me for this, take me.
We’ll to church tomorrow.
I say she shall.—And first begin with her.
Not I.
Most certain, if you are she, you do usurp yourself, for what is yours to bestow is not yours to reserve.
Caesar, I will.
Your commission’s ready.
Dry sorrow drinks our blood.
And on that vice in him will my revenge find notable cause to work.
If that thou be’st a devil, I cannot kill thee.
I hear none, madam.
The time is come.
Search every acre in the high-grown field, And bring him to our eye.
Yet what can it when one can not repent?
Bid them all fly.
She was of Carthage, not of Tunis.
Stanley, what news with you?
What else, fellow?
Now I change my mind, And partly credit things that do presage.
I’ll have no halves.
God send you joy, Petruchio.
Have you heard any imputation to the contrary?
I said so, dear Katherine; and I must not blush to affirm it.
God restore you to health!
These clothes are good enough to drink in, and so be these boots too.
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Even so.
One word more.
The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul.
O ye immortal gods!
Enjoy thy plainness.
Minion, thou liest.
Was he not born of woman?
Twas a shame no less Than was his loss, to course your flying flags And leave his navy gazing.
Why do you send so thick?
I do desire it with all my heart, and I hope it is no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the world.
That which I gave you.
A messenger from the galleys.
Well, go to, I will.
 if anyone born in Ephesus is seen in Syracuse’s marketplaces or if anyone born in Syracuse comes to Ephesus, that man dies, and his possessions will be confiscated by the Duke, unless he can raise a thousand marks to pay the penalty and ransom himself.
Her fallow leas The darnel, hemlock, and rank fumitory Doth root upon, while that the coulter rusts That should deracinate such savagery.
My determinate voyage is mere extravagancy.
The life”?
Not poppy nor mandragora Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world, Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owedst yesterday.
Behold, there stand the caskets, noble Prince.
In, or we are spoiled.
What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
Tybalt is dead, and Romeo banishèd.”
Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise.
Come, you deceive yourself.
Dear master, I can go no further.
Dear general, I never gave you cause.
O gentle lady, do not put me to ’t, For I am nothing, if not critical.
Now boast thee, Death, in thy possession lies A lass unparalleled.
Ay, if a woman live to be a man.
Ha!
Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee, and Requires to live in Egypt; which not granted, He lessens his requests, and to thee sues To let him breathe between the heavens and earth A private man in Athens.
What answer, sir?
An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.
I shall, my lord.
If you choose that, then I am yours withal.
Good e'en, brother.
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
Orlando?
Heaven doth truly know it.
Fear nothing.
Yet hear me, countrymen.
Madam, I had rather seal my lips Than to my peril speak that which is not.
You have broken The article of your oath, which you shall never Have tongue to charge me with.
Both, both, my girl.
No, ’tis hereafter to know, but now to promise.
Farewell, good Launcelot.
 Benedick is so pale—are you sick, or angry?
Where is thy luster now?
Our son shall win.
But here comes Antony.—Welcome, Mark Antony.
Prithee, be content.
How goes ’t?
If this young gentleman Have done offence, I take the fault on me.
Know’st thou Gower?
Ay, my lord.
It is very true.
Of a snail?
Is ’t come to this?
Tis much he dares, And to that dauntless temper of his mind He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor To act in safety.
We’ll see our husbands Before they think of us.
But he loves Caesar best; yet he loves Antony.
A gentleman, Nurse, that loves to hear himself talk, and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.
Let’s draw our weapons.
Dost thou hear?
Tear him, tear him!
We’ll along ourselves, and meet them at Philippi.
To him, Sir Topas.
Think you not that the powers we bear with us Will cut their passage through the force of France, Doing the execution and the act For which we have in head assembled them?
God be with my old master.
I, sir?
Who is most inward with the noble duke?
Come, some music!
Thy dukedom I resign and do entreat Thou pardon me my wrongs.
By Chrish, la, ’tish ill done.
I must tell you then.
Good my lord, How does your honor for this many a day?
I’ll to England.
Ay, too gentle.
If it had been painful, I would not have come.
Tis three o'clock, and, Romans, yet ere night We shall try fortune in a second fight.
Thou know’st not gold’s effect.
Witness, you ever-burning lights above, You elements that clip us round about, Witness that here Iago doth give up The execution of his wit, hands, heart, To wronged Othello’s service.
I had myself notice of my brother’s purpose herein and have by underhand means labored to dissuade him from it; but he is resolute.
He came to me, and I delivered it.
Good madam, keep yourself within yourself.
In the wars.
Go you and maintain talk with the duke, that my charity be not of him perceived.
My soul doth tell me Hero is belied, And that shall Claudio know; so shall the Prince And all of them that thus dishonor her.
I would have made it short, for I was come to the whole depth of my tale, and meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.
Horrible sight!
Oh, that’s well said—the chair!
Go bid the priests do present sacrifice And bring me their opinions of success.
Poor Antony!
This way, my lord.
Therefore beware my censure, and keep your promise.
My master’s mind.
Come, Desdemona, I have but an hour Of love, of worldly matter and direction, To spend with thee.
No, I’ll not weep.
In respect that it is solitary, I like it very well; but in respect that it is private, it is a very vile life.
It provokes the desire, but it takes away the performance.
These are news indeed!
I will go seek him.—Cassio, walk hereabout.
I did.
We have, sir.
Come hither, good Volumnius.
But if you fail, without more speech, my lord, You must be gone from hence immediately.
Tis but thy name that is my enemy.
Your voice shall be as strong as any man’s In the disposing of new dignities.
Nay then, I will not.
A ship you sent me to, to hire waftage.
Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after-supper, When thou shalt tell the process of their death.
Break an hour’s promise in love?
Tis a fearful odds.
God for Thy mercy, they are loose again!
This is a fellow of the selfsame color Our sister speaks of.—Come, bring away the stocks!
Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep.
Dissolve, thick cloud, and rain, that I may say The gods themselves do weep!
To thee I do commend my watchful soul, Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes.
This savors not much of distraction.
Therein, ye gods, you tyrants do defeat.
Now by my life, Old fools are babes again and must be used With checks as flatteries, when they are seen abused.
Why came not the slave back to me when I called him.
Who wouldst thou serve?
 don’t you know my voice?
Why dost thou wring thy hands?
Look, sir, I bleed.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome, A little ere the mightiest Julius fell, The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood, Disasters in the sun, and the moist star Upon whose influence Neptune’s empire stands Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
The king is full of grace and fair regard.
Tis best to give him way.
I thank thee, master.
No words can that woe sound.
He is.
You must call forth the watch that are their accusers.
Say then my peace is made.
If he do bleed, I’ll gild the faces of the grooms withal, For it must seem their guilt.
Call the messenger.
And the business you have broached here cannot be without you, especially that of Cleopatra’s, which wholly depends on your abode.
O Sisters three, Come, come to me With hands as pale as milk.
So shall I clothe me in a forced content, And shut myself up in some other course, To fortune’s alms.
Look!
But yet do I believe The origin and commencement of his grief Sprung from neglected love.—How now, Ophelia?
I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
I will not rise unless your Highness hear me.
One thing more rests, that thyself execute, to make one among these wooers.
Sirrah, go see what trumpet ’tis that sounds.
Where is that viper?
A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio.
There my Lysander and myself shall meet.
What, man, ’tis a night of revels!
Thou know’st that Banquo, and his Fleance, lives.
What was ’t That moved pale Cassius to conspire?
Sweet-heart!
Good morrow to you both.
Then pleaded I for you.
And now to our French causes.
What, a prisoner?
Now, were not I a little pot and soon hot, my very lips might freeze to my teeth, my tongue to the roof of my mouth, my heart in my belly, ere I should come by a fire to thaw me.
O me, O me!
Who sent you hither?
Here comes Thisbe.
My sister may receive it much more worse To have her gentleman abused, assaulted For following her affairs.—Put in his legs.
He’s as good at anything and yet a fool.
What is your difference?
Oh, I am slain!—My lord, you have one eye left To see some mischief on him.
And she is exceeding wise.
The oars were silver, Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made The water which they beat to follow faster, As amorous of their strokes.
Hail, most dear Caesar!
I eat the air, promise-crammed.
Come, Menas.
How the moon sleeps with Endymion And would not be awaked.
I will be faithful.
I have a wife, whom I protest I love.
I have forsworn his bed and company.
They say you are a melancholy fellow.
Therefore let’s follow.
I mean, my head upon your lap?
Your cousin, my lady, takes great exceptions to your ill hours.
How now, my hearts!
Myself myself confound, Heaven and fortune bar me happy hours, Day, yield me not thy light, nor night thy rest, Be opposite all planets of good luck To my proceedings if, with dear heart’s love, Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts, I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter.
And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill With sorrowful water?
And what says My concealed lady to our canceled love?
We had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth.
I had as lief have a reed that will do me no service as a partisan I could not heave.
Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight.
This letter from Bellario doth commend A young and learnèd doctor to our court.
Awake, sir, awake.
The king hath strictly charged the contrary.
Where is the rascal cook?
Let me see his eyes, That, when I note another man like him, I may avoid him.
I would thou hadst been son to some man else.
How chance thou art returned so soon?
He did appoint so.
To punish me for what you make me do Seems much unequal.
Fie!
There’s few or none will entertain it.
Pray you, let’s sit together.
Let the great gods That keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads Find out their enemies now.
Let us go sit here upon the church bench till two, and then all to bed.
Come, “The croaking raven doth bellow for revenge—”               
Come hither, Fabian.
I had forgot—three months.
Is she as tall as me?
Well, I am not fair, and therefore I pray the gods make me honest.
Teach me.
I must be one of these same dumb wise men, For Gratiano never lets me speak.
Caesar?
Is ’t frailty that thus errs?
Let her alone.
And thus it may be.
I am old now, And these same crosses spoil me.
Nay, yet there’s more in this.
Never was monarch better feared and loved Than is your Majesty.
Go to, woman, Throw your vile guesses in the devil’s teeth From whence you have them.
FOOL Oh, he’s drunk, Sir Toby, an hour agone.
Michael, good night.
I am come To bid my king and master aye good night.
He, he, ’tis he.
Oh, heaven forgive us!
Tis my picture.
Nay, but, Ophelia— Pray you, mark.
Where will the old duke live?
Ay, my lord.
Where dost thou hide thy head?
For both, my lord.
And how you may be converted I know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.
Therefore love moderately.
Both of you Know Banquo was your enemy.
How fares your majesty?
Now tell me how long you would have her after you have possessed her.
Conception is a blessing, but, as your daughter may conceive—Friend, look to ’t.
Will you walk, sir?—O Desdemona— My lord?
How now, Roderigo!
Were not you even now with the Countess Olivia?
She is damned for it.
In me ’tis villainy, In thee ’t had been good service.
And when was he wont to wash his face?
I pray you, pass with your best violence.
What news?
I go, my lord.
Get thee a wife, get thee a wife.
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother’s hand Of life, of crown, of queen at once dispatched, Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
My fault, but not my body, pardon, sovereign.
Your worship’s friend and Launcelot, sir.
My lord?
O villain, thou hast stolen both mine office and my name!
And when she is froward, peevish, sullen, sour, And not obedient to his honest will, What is she but a foul contending rebel And graceless traitor to her loving lord?
Will not King Richard let me speak with him?
Who is ’t you mean?
I humbly take my leave.
I have, since I was three year old, conversed with a magician, most profound in his art and yet not damnable.
Ay, lord.
You have not been abed, then?
A worthy pioneer!
How, my pretty York?
I have sent for these strawberries.
Addicted so and so.—” And there put on him What forgeries you please.
As he was valiant, I honor him.
Amen.
Then saw you not his face?
So we grew together, Like to a double cherry—seeming parted But yet an union in partition— Two lovely berries molded on one stem;
Nay, if you be an undertaker, I am for you.
Oh, the good gods!
Tis well blown, lads.
The princes both make high account of you—  I know they do, and I have well deserved it.
See, Caesar!
Thence we looked toward England And cited up a thousand fearful times, During the wars of York and Lancaster That had befall'n us.
But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon, Your buskined mistress and your warrior love, To Theseus must be wedded, and you come To give their bed joy and prosperity.
Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home, And so am come abroad to see the world.
How, how I pray you?
Indeed?
Where have you this?
Well, sir, I will.
I will be proud, I will read politic authors, I will baffle Sir Toby, I will wash off gross acquaintance, I will be point- devise the very man.
Nay, then, thus
Harry le Roy.
Hast stolen it from her?
Let me stay the growth of his beard, if thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin.
Do you find Your patience so predominant in your nature That you can let this go?
O Lorenzo, If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife, Become a Christian and thy loving wife.
Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.
For your coming in to dinner, sir, why, let it be as humours and conceits shall govern.
Hie thee, slave.
Ink and paper, Charmian.
For me, that I may surely keep mine oath, I will be married to a wealthy widow, Ere three days pass, which hath as long loved me As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard.
There’s no doubt his majesty Will soon recover his accustomed health.
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting.
The Mayor and all his brethren in best sort, Like to the senators of th' antique Rome, With the plebeians swarming at their heels, Go forth and fetch their conquering Caesar in— As, by a lower but loving likelihood,
The man i' th' moon!
I will indeed no longer endure it, nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace what already I have foolishly suffered.
Cut my lace, Charmian, come!
Tut, tut, thou art all ice; thy kindness freezes.
Say our pleasure, To such whose place is under us, requires Our quick remove from hence.
Commend me to thy mistress.
Nay, an you will not, sir, I’ll take my heels.
For the Dauphin, I stand here for him.
Stand there!
This moral ties me over to time and a hot summer.
Therefore, most gracious duke, with thy command Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help.
Who’s born that day When I forget to send to Antony Shall die a beggar.
Justice, find the girl!
No, not for Venice.
I am to blame to be thus waited for.
Now let me see if I can conster it.
Look you for any other issue?
Therefore, good Emilia, Give me my nightly wearing, and adieu.
Marry, I would not do such a thing for a joint-ring, nor for measures of lawn, nor for gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any petty exhibition.
O madam, my old heart is cracked, it’s cracked.
You have made me offer Of Sicily, Sardinia.
Upon condition Publius shall not live, Who is your sister’s son, Mark Antony.
They stared, and were distracted.
Out, out, brief candle!
I pray you, go Along with me.
Yet you have all the vantage of her wrong.
I have not heard the clock.
Most rightful judge!
By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the world shall know it.
Welcome, good Cambio.
Ay, so I think.
Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire are my daughters.
Hold, worthy lady, hold!
Ay, Celia, we stayed her for your sake.
I go, sir, but I would not have you to think that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness.
No, not he, though his face be better than any man’s, yet his leg excels all men’s, and for a hand and a foot and a body, though they be not to be talked on, yet they are past compare.
The time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow That never words were music to thine ear, That never object pleasing in thine eye, That never touch well welcome to thy hand, That never meat sweet-savored in thy taste, Unless I spake, or looked, or touched, or carved to thee.
But though I am a daughter to his blood, I am not to his manners.
Lucius, who’s that knocking?
Lights, lights, lights!
What can it not?
Ay, but their sense is shut.
I think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb.
There’s husbandry in heaven; Their candles are all out.
Anon, anon!
A match!
For so thou art.
If it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar as to hear me, I shall beseech him to befriend himself.
I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.
Who?
Your brother the Bastard is fled from Messina.
That is the very defect of the matter, sir.
And I am witness with her that she did.
The sky doth frown and lour upon our army.
Let’s away And get our jewels and our wealth together, Devise the fittest time and safest way To hide us from pursuit that will be made After my flight.
I hear him mock The luck of Caesar, which the gods give men To excuse their after wrath.—Husband, I come!
Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
Make that good.
The noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake.
I’ll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool To shake the head, relent and sigh, and yield To Christian intercessors.
Pray you, hasten Your generals after.
A very pleasing night to honest men.
If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive, Lo, here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword, Which if thou please to hide in this true breast And let the soul forth that adoreth thee, I lay it naked to the deadly stroke And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
Meet me by and by at the citadel.
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years.
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
And in good time here the lieutenant comes.— Master Lieutenant, pray you, by your leave, How doth the prince and my young son of York?
Worse and worse.
Thou know’st the mask of night is on my face, Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight.
He never did harm that I heard of.
Open, locks, Whoever knocks.
Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow.
Well, honor is the subject of my story.
I beseech you pardon me, my lord, if I be mistaken—for my duty cannot be silent when I think your highness wronged. 
I can stand well enough, and I speak well enough.
I know not, madam.
He comes upon a wish.
Most noble Empress, you have heard of me?
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it, As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
I did love you once.
Till then, lead thou first.
For what had he to do to chide at me?
Be merciful, say “death,” For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death.
The blow thou hadst Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage, And I will boot thee with what gift beside Thy modesty can beg.
I see, sir, you have found the goldsmith now.
Ay, my lord.
If I were Brutus now and he were Cassius, He should not humor me.
God made him and therefore let him pass for a man.
What, still in tears, Evermore showering?
And therefore is Love said to be a child, Because in choice he is so oft beguiled.
She was, good Curtis, before this frost.
I pray you, jest, sir, as you sit at dinner.
I am not bid for love.
Be trusty, and I’ll quit thy pains.
Read it, great Caesar.
I will deal in poison with thee, or in bastinado, or in steel.
In faith, they are as true of heart as we.
Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself, And say it is not so.
Ah, Desdemona, away, away, away!
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety.
But, soft!
For, sir, It is as sure as you are Roderigo, Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago.
Do me right, or I will protest your cowardice.
What two crowns shall they be?
Let me go.
Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thou speakest well of fools!
Let ’t be so, good Corporal Nym.
Call forth my household servants.
The bloody proclamation to escape, That followed me so near—O our lives' sweetness,
We have used our throats in Egypt.
Commend me to thy lady.
A dollar.
O Ratcliffe, I have dreamed a fearful dream!
Unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor, bare, forked animal as thou art.—  Off, off, you lendings!
All that I have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon; I, the man in the moon; this thornbush, my thornbush; and this dog, my dog.
He hath every month a new sworn brother.
What is your tidings?
Art thou my son?
Sit down a while And let us once again assail your ears, That are so fortified against our story, What we have two nights seen.
Oh, that a man might know The end of this day’s business ere it come!
Octavius, I have seen more days than you.
No, pray thee, let it serve for table talk.
Cesario, come, For so you shall be, while you are a man.
What is her mother?
Villainous whore!
Strike!
 you and the rest—all the people who have ever talked about her—have all been wrong.
I remember.
Nay, I’ll help too.
Father, what news?
With naught but truth.
Come on.
I am a very foolish fond old man, Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less.
But I’ll amerce you with so strong a fine That you shall all repent the loss of mine.
Brutus and Caesar—what should be in that “Caesar”?
The evil that men do lives after them; The good is oft interrèd with their bones.
But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him And makes me poor indeed.
Go to your rest.
Get thee to a nunnery.
What will I do, think’st thou?
Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Return with her?
The lamentable change is from the best; The worst returns to laughter.
Give me your hand.
Very good orators, when they are out, they will spit; and for lovers lacking—God warn us—matter, the cleanliest shift is to kiss.
Why, is it not news to hear of Petruchio’s coming?
Someone take order Buckingham be brought To Salisbury.
Nothing but this
Things base and vile, holding no quantity, Love can transpose to form and dignity.
The violet smells to him as it doth to me.
If she be false, heaven mocked itself.
That you do love me, I am nothing jealous.
For both our sakes, I would that word were true.
How can that be?
You bid me make it orderly and well, According to the fashion and the time.
So full of shapes is fancy That it alone is high fantastical.
He that stirs next to carve for his own rage Holds his soul light, he dies upon his motion.
You may think I love you not.
Then one of you will prove a shrunk panel and, like green timber, warp, warp.
Ha?
No, my noble lord.
Right true it is your son Lucentio here Doth love my daughter and she loveth him, Or both dissemble deeply their affections.
Go to the gate.
I cannot tell.
Then there is no true lover in the forest, else sighing every minute and groaning every hour would detect the lazy foot of time as well as a clock. 
Why should he follow?
When are you married, madam?
Alack, alack!
Deny to speak with me?
For our bad neighbor makes us early stirrers, Which is both healthful and good husbandry.
Go you and prepare Aliena, for look you, here comes my Rosalind.
Is this the Prince’s brother?
You are welcome.
I will weep for nothing, like Diana in the fountain, and I will do that when you are disposed to be merry.
Pray you now, Nay, do so, for indeed I have lost command.
Now could I drink hot blood And do such bitter business as the bitter day Would quake to look on.
Because their business still lies out o' door.
These letters give, Iago, to the pilot, And by him do my duties to the senate.
I have a thing for you.
Marry, and did.
Come out o' th' storm.
The king rises.
What mean’st thou, that thou help’st me not?
There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest, For I did dream of money bags tonight.
Why, Antony.
Oh, thou didst then ne'er love so heartily.
Haply a woman’s voice may do some good, When articles too nicely urged be stood on.
This is practice, Gloucester.
But yet, madam— I do not like “But yet.” It does allay The good precedence.
Your cake there is warm within; you stand here in the cold.
You come not Like Caesar’s sister.
Oh, she was heavenly true!
 if she looked different than she does, she would be ugly, and since she can’t be anything but herself, I don’t like her.
Let housewifery appear.
May be she doth but counterfeit.
So the spirit is eased.
Lie they upon thy hand And be undone by ’em!
Her lord is come.
On what compulsion must I?
Never fear that.
I never saw an action of such shame.
I’ll fetch some flax and whites of eggs To apply to his bleeding face.
Then would to Heaven that I had never seen ’t!
No Thisbe do I see.
Foul weather?
Can you not conceive?
Who ambles time withal?
But thou'rt too much my friend, And I’ll not wish thee to her.
The ground indeed is tawny.
I will be near to second your attempt, and he shall fall between us.
What, Grumio!
I can behold no longer.
Farewell.
Here comes the man you mean.
The noble duke my master, My worthy arch and patron, comes tonight.
Villain, thou liest; for even her very words Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.
Thou art sure of me.
The gods defend her!—hear him hence awhile.
You sulfurous and thought-executing fires, Vaunt-couriers of oak-cleaving thunderbolts, Singe my white head!
Pay him six thousand and deface the bond!
Good my sovereign, Take up the English short, and let them know Of what a monarchy you are the head.
I am afeard, Being in night, all this is but a dream, Too flattering sweet to be substantial.
Plots have I laid, inductions dangerous, By drunken prophecies, libels and dreams, To set my brother Clarence and the king In deadly hate, the one against the other; And if King Edward be as true and just As I am subtle, false, and treacherous, This day should Clarence closely be mewed up About a prophecy which says that “G” Of Edward’s heirs the murderer shall be.
Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth.
It was great ignorance, Gloucester’s eyes being out, To let him live.
Swart like my shoe, but her face nothing like so clean kept.
Is the chair empty?
Ha!
But tell me, is young George Stanley living?
So indeed he did.
Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me, Being all this time abandoned from your bed.
This concurs directly with the letter.
For shame, bring Juliet forth.
How now, my friend, why dost thou look so pale?
I pray you, leave me.
Thou shalt serve me.
Your mind may change.
Let’s not consort with them.
The hour steals on.
I mean, in a sort.
Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter To this detested groom.
Brown, madam, and her forehead As low as she would wish it.
Welcome to Cyprus.
How many fond fools serve mad jealousy!
I have a journey, sir, shortly to go.
Come, come, let us thither.
Amen.
Marry, will I, sir.
No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
You do remember all the circumstance?
Go make thyself like a nymph o' th' sea.
Then she bears some breadth?
O, belike his majesty hath some intent That you shall be new christened in the Tower.
Mercy, mercy!
You mock me, madam.
 Father Time himself is bald, so for all time there will be bald men.
Adieu.
Shall we rouse the night owl in a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver?
What will you do?
You, cousin.
But he protests he loves you And needs no other suitor but his likings To take the safest occasion by the front To bring you in again.
But then I saw no harm, and then I heard Each syllable that breath made up between them.
Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.
Good night, good brother.
Tis good.
Michael Cassio, Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello, Is come on shore.
What we will do, we do upon command.
Is ’t come to this?
Ah me!
Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will shake me up.
Charmian, hark.
You are a royal one, and we obey you.
How well my comfort is revived by this!
I’ll court his favors.
 you can’t get rid of me with spells.
Give me some light, away!
Mine ache to think on ’t. 
You are welcome for his sake.
A gentle scroll.
My good friends, hark!
And yet, by the very fangs of malice I swear, I am not that I play.
Since I came hither, Which I can call but now, I have heard strange news.
A man may see how this world goes with no eyes.
Above my fortunes, yet my state is well.
Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy Can do all this that he hath promisèd?
I have been to seek you.
Tis but one cast away, and so, come, death.
In faith, my lord, not I.
Know you any, Hero?
For God’s sake, take a house.
What shall I do?
O vassal!
Be by, good madam, when we do awake him.
So tell them, Publius.
Vouchsafe, defused infection of a man, Of these known evils but to give me leave By circumstance to curse thy cursèd self.
Night’s candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Friar!
There is some strange misprision in the princes.
Here thought they to have done Some wanton charm upon this man and maid, Whose vows are that no bed-right shall be paid Till Hymen’s torch be lighted—but in vain.
How can it be?
Where yond pine does stand I shall discover all.
Godden to your Worship, good Captain James.
It is not friendly, ’tis not maidenly.
God’s benison go with you and with those That would make good of bad and friends of foes.
Adieu.
To be now a sensible man, by and by a fool, and presently a beast!
Thus far with rough and all-unable pen Our bending author hath pursued the story, In little room confining mighty men, Mangling by starts the full course of their glory.
Made it for me, sir?
Have you not set mine honor at the stake, And baited it with all the unmuzzled thoughts That tyrannous heart can think?
There’s no art To find the mind’s construction in the face.
Macbeth!
Where is thy husband now?
Who serv’st thou under?
I pray you bring me on the way a little And say if I shall see you soon at night.
Oh, then belike she was old and gentle, and you rode, like a kern of Ireland, your French hose off and in your straight strossers.
Strike the vessels, ho!
Not for the wide world.
I do entreat you, not a man depart, Save I alone, till Antony have spoke.
Why should their liberty than ours be more?
Yes, sir.
Ay, there’s the villany.
Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile, Hath not old custom made this life more sweet Than that of painted pomp?
Saw you my lord?
Did my father strike my gentleman For chiding of his fool?
He had one yesterday.
But let it rest.—Now, Litio, to you.
Be Kent unmannerly When Lear is mad.
There I shall see mine own figure.
Why, it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes, and the clerestories toward the south-north are as lustrous as ebony.
A fair name.
What say you, Bottom?
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will more willingly part withal—except my life, except my life, except my life.
Fut, I should have been that I am, had the maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled on my bastardizing.
Take the hint Which my despair proclaims.
It is worth the pains.
Pox on ’t!
Villain, not for thy life!
Good morrow, friends.
Most villanously, like a pedant that keeps a school i' the church.
Death, in guerdon of her wrongs, Gives her fame which never dies.
We are the makers of manners, Kate, and the liberty that follows our places stops the mouth of all find- faults, as I will do yours for upholding the nice fashion of your country in denying me a kiss.
Tis time to look about.
Can heaven be so envious?
Draw together.
Tis very grievous to be thought upon.
But lest my liking might too sudden seem, I would have salved it with a longer treatise.
Would?
I will be treble-sinewed, -hearted, -breathed, And fight maliciously.
I loved Ophelia.
The Jove of power make me most weak, most weak, Your reconciler!
But, Lepidus, go you to Caesar’s house.
Tis a good hearing when children are toward.
Most meet That first we come to words, and therefore have we Our written purposes before us sent, Which, if thou hast considered, let us know If ’twill tie up thy discontented sword And carry back to Sicily much tall youth That else must perish here.
And when you do them—     Cassius, be content.
Know, sir, that I Will not wait pinioned at your master’s court, Nor once be chastised with the sober eye Of dull Octavia.
If I can recover him and keep him tame and get to Naples with him, he’s a present for any emperor that ever trod on neat’s leather.
When we shall meet at compt This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven And fiends will snatch at it.
I never spake with her in all my life.
Hold little faith, though thou hast too much fear.
Be silent.
I think that one of them is hereabout, And cannot make away.
A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
We’ll away tonight, And be a day before our husbands home.
Go to, then.
God ye good e'en, fair gentlewoman.
Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true.
This is his sword.
Was ever woman in this humor wooed?
Hear me a word, For I shall never speak to thee again.
No, Caesar shall not.
This is a man—old, wrinkled, faded, withered— And not a maiden, as thou say’st he is.
Your reproof is something too round.
Dost thou hear, Iago?
Look to her, Moor, if thou hast eyes to see.
When time shall serve, let but the herald cry, And I’ll appear again.
Caesar sits down in Alexandria, where I will oppose his fate.
What’s that to thee?
Favors?
Out of these convertites There is much matter to be heard and learned.
Your plainness and your shortness please me well.
Although I hate her, I’ll not harm her so.
I cannot speak to her, yet she urged conference.
Unwilling, I agreed.
 sober up.
What, wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice?
That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold.
Idle old man That still would manage those authorities That he hath given away!
I’ll hold my mind were she an Ethiope.
You saw my master wink and laugh upon you?
I would not marry her, though she were endowed with all that Adam had left him before he transgressed.
Do you quarrel, sir?
Where they feared the death, they have borne life away; and where they would be safe, they perish.
Ay, my lord.
She was a vixen when she went to school.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Stir with the lark tomorrow, gentle Norfolk.
What, is Antonio here?
Give me your hand.
Let him speak, my lord, Upon his peril, that I have reserved To myself nothing.
Oh, such another sleep, that I might see But such another man!
Show me, show me.
Help!
Draw and come.
How now, my metal of India?
Didst thou behold Octavia?
A pox of drowning thyself!
He wonders to what end you have assembled Such troops of citizens to come to him, His grace not being warned thereof before.
Some villains of my court Are of consent and sufferance in this.
That Petruchio came?
Octavia is of a holy, cold, and still conversation.
Love cools, friendship falls off, brothers divide, in cities 
I’ll meet you at that place some hour hence.
Come, let us to the castle.
To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!
If you will not, come when you are next prepared for.
More, more, I prithee, more.
Then be your eyes the witness of their evil.
The king doth love you well.
I attend them with all respect and duty.
I pray you, let me look upon the bond.
A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
Doth my simple feature content you?
Ay, madam, twenty several messengers.
I am dying, Egypt, dying.
What said my man, when my betossèd soul Did not attend him as we rode?
Come, wait upon him.
What of that?
Aha!
Yea, my lord, but I can cross it.
O Iago!
Of us must Pompey presently be sought, Or else he seeks out us.
We learn no other but the confident tyrant Keeps still in Dunsinane and will endure Our setting down before ’t.
Let him that loves me strike me dead.
Marry, I will, and this is wisely done.
Away, old man.
Why, that were covetousness.
As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb, and the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and as pigeons bill, so wedlock would be nibbling.
Give me your arm.
For you know, nuncle, The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long, That it’s had it head bit off by it young.
Tis very good.
Let copulation thrive, for Gloucester’s bastard son Was kinder to his father than my daughters got ’tween the lawful sheets.
What, did they never whisper?
Good gentlemen, let me have leave to speak.
So good night unto you all.
An the duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I’ll be hanged. 
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip’s bowl, For here we need it not.
And as with age his body uglier grows, So his mind cankers.
Come, come!
My master calls me.
Oh, these men, these men!
O happy dagger, This is thy sheath.
Well, come again tomorrow.
How art thou out of breath when thou hast breath To say to me that thou art out of breath?
Tis better, sir, to be brief than tedious.—Let him see our commission, and talk no more.
The mighty dukes, Gloucester and Buckingham.
The more pity that fools may not speak wisely what wise men do foolishly.
What, are you mad that you do reason so?
And I have built Two chantries where the sad and solemn priests Sing still for Richard’s soul.
It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.
So is the dearest o' th' loss.
Do thou for him stand.
There is no other shelter hereabouts.
How tartly that gentleman looks!
What, art thou ashamed of me?
If not, I’ll die your maid.
What noise is that?
The tempest in my mind Doth from my senses take all feeling else Save what beats there—filial ingratitude.
Ay.
Is Claudio thine enemy?
Give him no breath, but now Make boot of his distraction.
Well, you may fear too far.
Which of these is he?
What, art mad?
For you must understand he goes but to see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.
No, unpin me here.
So fare you well at once, for Brutus' tongue Hath almost ended his life’s history.
Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
I will condole in some measure.—To the rest.—Yet my chief humor is for a tyrant.
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites By their own beauties, or, if love be blind, It best agrees with night.
The several messengers From hence attend dispatch.
Peace, Grumio.
List a word.
Hence!
What is this same?
Then did they imitate that which I composed to my courser, for my horse is my mistress.
Kind gentlemen, your pains Are registered where every day I turn The leaf to read them.
I' faith, sir, you shall never need to fear.
Come hither, knight.
Poor souls, they perished.
Stand!
Asses are made to bear, and so are you.
Neighbors, God speed.
Soft stillness and the night Become the touches of sweet harmony.
Oh, falsely, falsely murdered!
And to that end, sir, I will welcome you. 
Romeo can, Though heaven cannot.
What can be avoided Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
Do you see, gentlemen?
I cannot think my sister in the least Would fail her obligation.
They that reap must sheaf and bind, Then to cart with Rosalind.
I mean, an we be in choler, we’ll draw.
He had, my lord, and when he ran in here, These people saw the chain about his neck.
Ah, this thou shouldst have done And not have spoke on ’t!
I do suspect I have done some offense That seems disgracious in the city’s eye, And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
Therefore speak no more.
How wilt thou do for a father?
Oh , stay but till then!
How fares my Juliet?
Whither indeed, before thy here-approach, Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men, Already at a point, was setting forth.
I never heard a passion so confused, So strange, outrageous, and so variable, As the dog Jew did utter in the streets.
How now, my lord!
What’s to say?
Hark, what noise is this?
What doth she say, my lord of Buckingham?
But did’st thou see them dead?
Let me entreat you.
Companion, hence!
Doth this news hold of good King Edward’s death?
God keep your Worship!
To England will I steal, and there I’ll steal.
Yet, coming from him, that great med’cine hath With his tinct gilded thee.
Season your admiration for a while With an attent ear, till I may deliver, Upon the witness of these gentlemen, This marvel to you.
Nay, it is possible enough to judgment.
I know no news, my lord.
Away, make haste.
Nay, I dare not swear it.
Yes, truly, for look you, the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children.
Tis now the very witching time of night, When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out Contagion to this world.
The news is true, my lord.
Nay, ’tis twice two months, my lord.
Upon the stroke of ten.
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife, And all those twenty could but kill one life.
Have you no wit, manners, nor honesty but to gabble like tinkers at this time of night?
If a Jew wrong a Christian, what is his humility?
Why then, ’tis good to be a post.
But you must learn to know such slanders of the age, or else you may be marvelously mistook.
Strike not by land; keep whole.
We will, fair queen, up to the mountain’s top, And mark the musical confusion Of hounds and echo in conjunction.
I do entreat your grace to pardon me.
The people love me, and the sea is mine.
Here, Peter Quince.
Behold
I will do this, if you can bring it to any opportunity.
Upon the stroke of four.
You must say “paragon.” A “paramour” is, God bless us, a thing of naught.
Harder, harder.
But if it be a sin to covet honor, I am the most offending soul alive.
I have been worth the whistle.
It is his.
What trade, thou knave?
And so he goes to heaven.
Come, trusty sword.
The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
Impudent strumpet!
Who of my people hold him in delay?
You shall confess that you are both deceived.
I will give out divers schedules of my beauty.
Look with thine ears.
Give him heedful note.
Of thirty sail.
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more, Or close the wall up with our English dead!
God speak this “amen”!
Are you answered?
Donalbain.
If we do lose this battle, then is this The very last time we shall speak together.
Why then, lead on.
Light, I say, light!
When did I see thee so put down?
O, let me make the period to my curse!
You do mistake me, sir.
These griefs and losses have so bated me, That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh Tomorrow to my bloody creditor.— Well, jailer, on.—Pray God Bassanio come To see me pay his debt, and then I care not.
He’s now in Florence.
Sir, sir, be patient.
Good morrow, Catesby.
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
Out, you green sickness, carrion!
Well, here’s my comfort.
This fellow’s of exceeding honesty And knows all quantities, with a learnèd spirit, Of human dealings.
I cross me for a sinner.
I think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties.
All the better.
Is he come?
Why do they run away?
When a wise man gives thee better counsel, give me mine again.
But what’s your jest?
Read it, Mark Antony!
Is thy news good, or bad?
Once more, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.
Are they all ready?
A quarrel, but nothing wherefore.
I know you not.
It hath not appeared.
We have been praying for our husbands' welfare, Which speed, we hope, the better for our words.
Truly, my name is Cinna.
Where is thy master, Dromio?
Go to.
A kind good night to all!
Come, Casca, you and I will yet ere day See Brutus at his house.
Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
Then how can it be said I am alone When all the world is here to look on me?
Ay, ay, the cords.
And is it not well served into a sweet goose?
He is my dear friend, an please you.
Who is it that complains unto the king That I, forsooth, am stern and love them not?
I am called Dercetus.
How now, Captain Macmorris, have you quit the mines?
Sweet Moon, I thank thee for thy sunny beams.
What should I answer you?
Will you have her?
And sayst thou yet that exile is not death?
I’ll look to like if looking liking move.
Why then, your uncle and the Prince and Claudio Have been deceived.
Bless thee, Bottom, bless thee.
You are too indulgent.
This is the night That either makes me or fordoes me quite.
He bounds from the earth, as if his entrails were hairs, le cheval volant, the Pegasus, qui a les narines de feu.
Thursday is near.
That thou shalt see the difference of our spirit, I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it.
For this present, I would not, so with love I might entreat you, Be any further moved.
You could never do him so ill-well unless you were the very man.
I think so too.
If wolves had at thy gate howled that stern time, Thou shouldst have said, “Good porter, turn the key,” All cruèls else subscribed.
Casca will tell us what the matter is.
Yes, the fashion is the fashion.
Sweet masters, be patient.
Of what your reverence shall incite us to.
Tis now near night.
I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you.
Thou almost makest me waver in my faith To hold opinion with Pythagoras That souls of animals infuse themselves Into the trunks of men.
Wilt thou not answer, man?
Alexas!
Then never man was man true.
I know not at whose suit he is arrested well, But he’s in a suit of buff which ’rested him; that can I tell.
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough.
Perchance, Iago, I will ne'er go home.
Besides, they have burned and carried away all that was in the king’s tent, wherefore the king, most worthily, hath caused every soldier to cut his prisoner’s throat.
Mine and my father’s death come not upon thee, Nor thine on me.
Grieve not that I am fall'n to this for you, For herein Fortune shows herself more kind Than is her custom.
Is he gone?
What, sir, not yet at rest?
O excellent young man!
The prince my brother hath outgrown me far.
How shall I know thee again?
This week he hath been heavy, sour, sad, And much different from the man he was.
 she’s the devil’s mother, and she comes to us disguised as an easy wench.
Therefore I will depart unkissed.
Have I not heard the sea, puffed up with winds, Rage like an angry boar chafèd with sweat?
I’ll ask them.
And mine, to eke out hers.
How can this be?  
Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through.
I charge you, get you home.
What though I killed her husband and her father?
Till which encounter It is my business too.
Farewell.
My excellent good friends!
 stroke your chins and swear by your beards that I am a knave.
Good night.
Your answer to that?
What, are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet?
You say very true, scald knave, when God’s will is.
If she had been blessed, she would never have loved the Moor.
Here, madam.
I say to you this house is dark.
I gave him the stuff.
I have received a hurt.
Good night, good night.
My dear Othello!
A friend.
Caesar, I bring thee word Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates, Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound With keels of every kind.
But as I think—for truly would I speak, And now do I bethink me, so it is— I came with Hermia hither.
There came divers of Antonio’s creditors in my company to Venice that swear he cannot choose but break.
When could they say till now, that talked of Rome, That her wide walks encompassed but one man?
Now quit you well.—             Torches, torches!
Set it by a while.
I embrace it.
What would you?
We will hence forthwith To feast and sport us at thy father’s house.
You lie up to the hearing of the gods.
Yet marked I where the bolt of Cupid fell.
Therefore wast thou Deservedly confined into this rock, Who hadst deserved more than a prison.
In which array, brave soldier, doth he lie, Larding the plain, and by his bloody side, Yoke-fellow to his honor-owing wounds, The noble earl of Suffolk also lies.
Oh, widow Dido?
Think on thy sins.
Mad call I it, for, to define true madness, What is ’t but to be nothing else but mad?
Well met, honest gentleman.
I do believe ’twas he.
And when he saw my best alarumed spirits, Bold in the quarrel’s right, roused to the encounter, Or whether ghasted by the noise I made, Full suddenly he fled.
My banquet is to close our stomachs up, After our great good cheer.
Is your name Shylock?
Oh, noble weakness!
If there come truth from them— As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine— Why, by the verities on thee made good, May they not be my oracles as well, And set me up in hope?
I this infer
Seafaring men, sir.
No further, sir.
Then is Caesar and he forever knit together.
She haunts me in every place.
Ay, my lord.
Is not this true?
Enough.
I dare, and do defy thee for a villain.
I find not Myself disposed to sleep.
I would have all well betwixt you.
O insupportable and touching loss!
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.  
O, you give me ill counsel.
Hail, king!
I muse why she’s at liberty.
To be Count Malvolio!
But, brother, I can tell you strange news that you yet dreamt not of.
Rescue, my lord of Norfolk, rescue, rescue!
What cheer?
This is an aspic’s trail, and these fig leaves Have slime upon them, such as th’ aspic leaves Upon the caves of Nile.
They lack retention.
It is with a good will.
Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man.
Here’s metal more attractive.
We were Christians eno' before, e'en as many as could well live one by another.
em all three all ready.
I’ll have my bond.
Why, so he doth, when he delivers you From this earth’s thralldom to the joys of heaven.
Brutus, bait not me.
Is ’t not your trick?
Would I were able to load him with his desert!
In the name lay A moiety of the world.
Send to his brother.
Who knows not that the gentle duke is dead?
He shall have nothing but the penalty.
Soundly, my lord.
Good madam, patience.
I am mightily abused.
But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench, Thou pout’st upon thy fortune and thy love.
When we are born, we cry that we are come To this great stage of fools.
In his bosom?
I was provokèd by her sland'rous tongue, That laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
Ah, my poor princes!
Therefore be patient.
The god of Jupiter.
Think, my lord?” Alas, thou echo’st me As if there were some monster in thy thought Too hideous to be shown.
Ay, but (by your leave) not before me.
What impossible matter will he make easy next?
I know not, sir.
And squabble?
Now Lord be thanked for my good amends!
Within my sword’s length set him; if he ’scape, Heaven forgive him too.
Therefore go.
If our father carry authority with such dispositions as he bears, this last surrender of his will but offend us.
I am glad to see you.
Both, both, my lord.— This letter, madam, craves a speedy answer.
Smilest thou?
Come, let’s all take hands Till that the conquering wine hath steeped our sense In soft and delicate Lethe.
I thank thee for that jest.
It may well be called Jove’s tree when it drops forth such fruit.
How now, spirit?
I am for you.
Music, hark.
Nay, good Lysander.
God buy you, take mine office.
I would I were thy bird.
Where, where, Messala, doth his body lie?
Prithee, put up.
We’ll have thee to a couch Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed On purpose trimmed up for Semiramis.
Sure, these are but imaginary wiles, And lapland sorcerers inhabit here.
If knife, drugs, serpents, have Edge, sting, or operation, I am safe.
If thou and nature can so gently part, The stroke of death is as a lover’s pinch, Which hurts, and is desired.
What, drawn, and talk of peace?
Very well took, i' faith, wisely, wisely.
We say that Shore’s wife hath a pretty foot, A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue, And that the queen’s kindred are made gentlefolks.
You think of him too much.
I mean in singing.
Our knocking has awaked him.
Do you not jest?
If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
Who then shall blame His pestered senses to recoil and start, When all that is within him does condemn Itself for being there?
Give me your hand.
So he does indeed.
Mooncalf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a good mooncalf.
Therefore, patiently and yielding.
Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn.
He is drunk now.
And I was going to your lodging, Cassio.
Farewell.
It is not very strange.
That is, to watch her, as we watch these kites That bate and beat and will not be obedient.
So help me every spirit sanctified As I have spoken for you all my best And stood within the blank of his displeasure For my free speech.
That he was never trainèd up in arms.
I chose her when I could not ask my father For his advice, nor thought I had one.
And so fare thee well.
Well, fare you well, my lord.
Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.
Madam, with all my heart.
Peace!
I would we were well rid of this knavery.
That “sort” was well fished for.
E'en so, my lord.
The Count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well, but civil count, civil as an orange, and something of that jealous complexion.
You best know the place.
Bear him away.
Thou call’st on him that hates thee.
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage.
Well, you are to call at all the alehouses and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
Is it a man?
The door is open, sir.
Milan and Naples have More widows in them of this business' making Than we bring men to comfort them.
What color, madam?
Kent banished thus?
Ay, but the clerk that never means to do it Unless he live until he be a man.
I am right loath to go.
Alas, why would you heap this care on me?
He’ll say ’twas done cowardly, when he wakes.
Tis too late to go to bed now.
Give welcome to my friend.
Anon, as patient as the female dove When that her golden couplets are disclosed, His silence will sit drooping.
O spite of spites!
She will not come.
And is ’t not to be damned To let this canker of our nature come In further evil?
A greater gift?
All is not well.
Nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass, Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron Can be retentive to the strength of spirit.
Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
Well, sir, my mistress is the sweetest lady.—Lord, Lord!
Fortune and victory sit on thy helm!
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child, But one thing to rejoice and solace in, And cruel death hath catched it from my sight!
It is very hot.
Before the eyes of both our armies here, Which should perceive nothing but love from us, Let us not wrangle.
What say you sir?
It may be his enemy is a gentleman of great sort, quite from the answer of his degree.
But here the lady comes.
Vent my folly!
He cannot be heard of.
I do I know not what and fear to find Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.
How does he love me?
At home, my lord.
The mercy that was quick in us but late By your own counsel is suppressed and killed.
He received them Of him that brought them.
Let sorrow split my heart if ever I Did hate thee or thy father.
Thy master and his man are here, And that is false thou dost report to us.
When they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian.
I pray you, tell my lord and father, madam, I will not marry yet.
Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.” I will assume desert.—Give me a key for this, And instantly unlock my fortunes here.
Consent to pay thee that I never had?— Arrest me, foolish fellow, if thou dar’st.
Troth, sir, I can yield you none without words, and words are grown so false, I am loath to prove reason with them.
I must catechise you for it, madonna.
What says he of our marriage?
O God, did Romeo’s hand shed Tybalt’s blood?
What’s that?
The very instant that I saw you did My heart fly to your service, there resides To make me slave to it, and for your sake Am I this patient log-man.
I’ll pay thy pleasure then.
Now, by my troth, if I had been remembered, I could have given my uncle’s grace a flout To touch his growth nearer than he touched mine.
Say you have wronged her, sir.
Suppose th' Ambassador from the French comes back, Tells Harry that the king doth offer him
I fight against thee?
Can you blame her then, being a maid yet rosed over with the virgin crimson of modesty, if she deny the appearance of a naked blind boy in her naked seeing self?
Good morrow to thee.
In my chamber window lies a book.
Go you down that way towards the Capitol.
Pray thee, marry us.
Lord,” quoth he?
How yet resolves the governor of the town?
I did nothing.
I’ll bring my wood home faster.
Heaven and yourself Had part in this fair maid.
All this”?
Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which thou shalt find I will most kindly requite.
But I pray you, tell me, is my boy, God rest his soul, alive or dead?
First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats on, then read the names of the actors, and so grow to a point.
The Marshal of France, Monsieur la Far.
Well, sir.
How old are you, friend?
Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard, Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey.
O God!
No.
Jove, Jove, this shepherd’s passion Is much upon my fashion.
Send one presently to Sir Toby.
Follow your spirit, and upon this charge Cry “God for Harry, England, and Saint George!”
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression?
O noble judge!
You’d be king o' th' isle, sirrah?
But I will tarry.
I warrant your honor.
Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in ’s tale, by this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.
Notable pirate!
Out of doubt he is transported.
Well thought on.
We are sent To give thee from our royal master thanks, Only to herald thee into his sight, Not pay thee.
A good soft pillow for that good white head Were better than a churlish turf of France.
Why, this fellow has banished two on ’s daughters, and did the third a blessing against his will.
Well praised!
Do, do.
That’s a degree to love.
O my heart!
But soft, I pray you.
Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed.
You must think this, look you, that the worm will do his kind.
It fell upon a little western flower, Before milk-white, now purple with love’s wound.
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
So bless thee, master.
Princes have but their titles for their glories, An outward honor for an inward toil,
Turn the sands into eloquent tongues, and my horse is argument for them all.
But ’tis a spirit.
Make the doors upon a woman’s wit, and it will out at the casement.
How if your husband start some otherwhere?
He hath honored me of late, and I have bought Golden opinions from all sorts of people, Which would be worn now in their newest gloss, Not cast aside so soon.
Faith, we may put up our pipes and be gone.
And these few precepts in thy memory Look thou character.
The Moor’s abused by some most villainous knave, Some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow.
Come, away!
Heigh-ho.
Yonder, sir, he walks.
By th' clock ’tis day, And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp.
Here comes Lorenzo.
O God!
The fault of it I’ll answer.
But seven years since, in Syracusa, boy, Thou know’st we parted.
And if thou prate of mountains let them throw Millions of acres on us, till our ground, Singeing his pate against the burning zone, Make Ossa like a wart!
Was my father a traitor, Mother?
He is indeed a horse, and all other jades you may call beasts. 
Pray you, go with us.
What says the golden chest?
Make haste, I say.
Go to thy cold bed and warm thee.
Therefore, queen of all, Katherine, break thy mind to me in broken English.
What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
Was ever man so beaten?
Thus when I shun Scylla your father, I fall into Charybdis your mother.
My Lord Constable, the armor that I saw in your tent tonight, are those stars or suns upon it?
She that doth call me husband, even my soul Doth for a wife abhor.
Thy husband.
O, by your leave, I pray you, I bade you never speak again of him.
To save her life, I’ll say she is not so.
Full oft ’tis seen, Our means secure us and our mere defects Prove our commodities.
Methinks you are my glass, and not my brother
Is it not strange, Canidius, That from Tarentum and Brundusium He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea And take in Toryne?—You have heard on ’t, sweet?
O, make them joyful.
Here is the head of that ignoble traitor, The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.
Art thou aught else but place, degree, and form, Creating awe and fear in other men, Wherein thou art less happy, being feared, Than they in fearing?
Now, for I know the Breton Richmond aims At young Elizabeth, my brother’s daughter, And by that knot looks proudly on the crown, To her go I, a jolly thriving wooer.
Why, what’s the matter?
Well, I’ll be revenged as I may.
Only for this, I pray you, pardon me.
Let us deal justly.
Whiles we stood here securing your repose, Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing Like bulls, or rather lions.
Is ’t true?
We’ll no more meet, no more see one another.
I answer you?
Thou hast some suit to Caesar, hast thou not?
Is not this well?
Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear, The armed rhinoceros, or th' Hyrcan tiger; Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves Shall never tremble.
Lechery, sir, it provokes and unprovokes.
Nay, he reserved a blanket, else we had been all shamed.
His beard was grizzled, no?
True, madam.
He named Sebastian.
Give ear, sir, to my sister.
To th’ monument!
He bears too great a mind.
Say, is your tardy master now at hand?
You ever gentle gods, take my breath from me.
Know you before whom, sir?
But what’s the matter, Clarence?
What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two to make merry withal?
If any, speak—for him have I offended.
No evil lost is wailed when it is gone.
Know’st thou not any whom corrupting gold Will tempt unto a close exploit of death?
Well, thou dost best.
What bastard doth not?
When they do choose, They have the wisdom by their wit to lose.
Come on, gentle my lord, Sleek o'er your rugged looks.
Besides, they are our outward consciences And preachers to us all, admonishing That we should dress us fairly for our end.
My wife is coming yonder.
I am an ass, I am a woman’s man, and besides myself.
Know you not the cause?
Hope I may choose, sir.
I know you are my eldest brother, and in the gentle condition of blood you should so know me.
Say thou but “ay,” And that bare vowel  Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine, Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline.
Will you sup there?
Antony will use his affection where it is.
Fie!
All disconsolate, With Pindarus his bondman on this hill.
What is it she does now?
I cannot tell, except they are busied about a counterfeit assurance.
wherefore sink you down?
Wherefore rejoice?
Of this my letters Before did satisfy you.
I hope so.
Do, with like timorous accent and dire yell As when, by night and negligence, the fire Is spied in populous cities.
I hope she will be brief.
Good morrow to my sovereign king and queen, And, princely peers, a happy time of day.
Farewell till then.
Tut, a toy!
Now, fellow, What is there?
Canst thou remember A time before we came unto this cell?
I have no hope That he’s undrowned.
Ay, my lord.
No, boy.
Wilt thou at Ninny’s tomb meet me straightway?
I was adored once too.
Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt— Whom leprosy o’ertake!—i’ th’ midst o’ th’ fight, When vantage like a pair of twins appeared Both as the same, or rather ours the elder, The breeze upon her, like a cow in June, Hoists sails and flies.
Bloody constraint, for if you hide the crown Even in your hearts, there will he rake for it.
But all remember What you have said, and show yourselves true Romans.
He is descried.
And when I have my meed, I will away, For this will out, and then I must not stay.
 they measure the depth of the Nile, according to certain marks made on the walls of the Pyramid.
Thy mother’s poisoned.
Nay, and I will.
By heaven, I saw my handkerchief in ’s hand.
We have scorched the snake, not killed it.
Well get you gone.
Wherefore is this?
Wake when some vile thing is near.
Advise the duke where you are going, to a most festinate preparation.
Ass, I doubt not.
How easy is it, then!
My cousin means Signor Benedick of Padua.
None, Brutus, none.
These things, come thus to light, Smother her spirits up.
Under this conjuration, speak, my lord, For we will hear, note, and believe in heart That what you speak is in your conscience washed As pure as sin with baptism.
No, no.
Therein the patient Must minister to himself.
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
Goes the king hence today?
Go by, Saint Jeronimy.
I would be loath to have you overflown with a honey bag, signor.
That do I long to hear.
Be bloody, bold, and resolute.
What traitor hears me and says not “Amen?” England hath long been mad and scarred herself.
I have offended reputation, A most unnoble swerving.
If he come tomorrow, I’ll give him his payment.
We will be satisfied!
There is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young plants with carving “Rosalind” on their barks, hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles, all, forsooth, deifying the name of Rosalind.
Where’s that mongrel?
Read.
Here’s yet some liquor left.  
My wife killed too?
Talk you of killing?
Knock at the gate?
And though she be but little, she is fierce.
I hear their drum.
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time, Th' oppressor’s wrong, the proud man’s contumely, The pangs of despised love, the law’s delay, The insolence of office, and the spurns That patient merit of th' unworthy takes, When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin?
That I ask again, For nothing can be ill if she be well.
Thou liest, thou shag-haired villain!
List a brief tale, And when ’tis told, oh, that my heart would burst!
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, Quarreling, drabbing—you may go so far.
A contagious breath.
Go with me to a notary, seal me there Your single bond, and—in a merry sport— If you repay me not on such a day, In such a place, such sum or sums as are Expressed in the condition, let the forfeit Be nominated for an equal pound Of your fair flesh, to be cut off and taken In what part of your body pleaseth me.
And, moreover, God saw him when he was hid in the garden.
If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.
Hence will I to my ghostly friar’s close cell, His help to crave and my dear hap to tell.
What think’st thou, will our friends prove all true?
Prithee, no more.
Do you not know I am a woman?
Great happiness!
There, my lord.
And doth affection breed it?
Madam, I will.
Lysander and myself will fly this place.
No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.
I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music, Cry “Caesar!”—Speak.
That he hath not.
Yet this is your harmless fairy, monster.
Our fortune lies Upon this jump.
Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?
I do not know what “poetical” is.
Is not their climate foggy, raw, and dull, On whom, as in despite, the sun looks pale, Killing their fruit with frowns?
You are very well met.
Hark!
Why, this' a heavy chance ’twixt him and you, Your ancient, trusty, pleasant servant Grumio.
O Cicero, I have seen tempests when the scolding winds Have rived the knotty oaks, and I have seen Th' ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam To be exalted with the threatening clouds, But never till tonight, never till now, Did I go through a tempest dropping fire.
There thou mightst behold the great image of authority
Out, you baggage!
How now?
Judgment?
I’ll not trust your word.
Welcome, my lord.
Thou art a traitor— Off with his head.
I will not budge for no man’s pleasure, I.
And yet no matter.
Cheerly, boys.
These Moors are changeable in their wills—fill thy purse with money.
Let it be a quarrel between us, if you live.
And I am sick when I look not on you.
The greater part, the horse in general, Are come with Cassius.
Save you, gentleman.
My money is almost spent, I have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled, and I think the issue will be I shall have so much experience for my pains.
Or, if you borrow one another’s love for the instant, you may, when you hear no more words of Pompey, return it again.
Ay, if your self’s remembrance wrong yourself.
O happy horse, to bear the weight of Antony!
The people knows it, and have now received His accusations.
I will make myself known to Desdemona.
It shall be done.
Madam, I have a touch of your condition, Which cannot brook the accent of reproof.
We love him highly And shall continue our graces towards him.
But you, O you, So perfect and so peerless, are created Of every creature’s best.
Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord.
Tis time we twain Did show ourselves i’ th’ field, and to that end Assemble we immediate council.
So may it be indeed.
When these prodigies Do so conjointly meet, let not men say, “These are their reasons.
Sir, my good friend, I’ll change that name with you.
Ay, two hours together.
Tender yourself more dearly, Or—not to crack the wind of the poor phrase, Running it thus—you’ll tender me a fool.
What, and my old Venetian friend Salerio?
He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him.
Thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.
But all this did I know before.
Wherein the toged consuls can propose As masterly as he.
Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself.
Why, right, you are in the right.
His absence, sir, Lays blame upon his promise.
One of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey.
Father, I am glad you are come.
And so perchance may he be.
I charge you, go with me.
From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
Well, in that hit you miss.
O my dear lord—   Nay, do not think I flatter.
I’ll be with thee straight.
They will surely do us no harm.
For ’tis most easy Th' inclining Desdemona to subdue In any honest suit.
I thank you for your company, but, good faith, I had as lief have been myself alone.
Where is he?
Tomorrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit, and he that escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him well.
By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o' nights.
Hath any man seen him at the barber’s?
By my troth, I speak my thought.
I have seen thee fight When I have envied thy behavior.
She rendered life, Thy name so buried in her.
I must stay with the lackeys with the luggage of our camp.
You shall play it in a mask, and you may speak as small as you will.
In him your comfort lives.
The day will come that thou shalt wish for me To help thee curse that poisonous bunch-backed toad.
Many hot inroads They make in Italy—the borders maritime Lack blood to think on ’t—and flush youth revolt.
Free from the bondage you are in, Messala.
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.— Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of.
Can you tell me whether one Launcelot that dwells with him, dwell with him or no?
But let her live.
Your brother Gloucester hates you.
Hear my excuse.
We must both give and take, my loving lord.
The Prince and Monsieur Love!
I have it not about me.
Make haste.
Hold, sir, here’s my purse.
Watch me like Argus.
For Michael Cassio, I dare be sworn, I think, that he is honest.
Pray heaven it be State matters, as you think, and no conception Nor no jealous toy concerning you.
You say well.
How now, Lorenzo?
Heaven would that she these gifts should have And I to live and die her slave.
It does, my lord.
Now, afore God, I am so vexed that every part about me quivers.
It is to be all made of sighs and tears, And so am I for Phoebe.
Ay, my lord, this same.
Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception.
I take some joy to say you are because I would be talking of her.
Catesby.
In cases of defense ’tis best to weigh The enemy more mighty than he seems.
What man is that?
Rosalind lacks then the love Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one.
By this light, a most perfidious and drunken monster.
So is the fame.
Never came poison from so sweet a place.
I am none of these, my lord.
Ay, madam, but returns again tonight.
You would seem to know my stops.
There is more sense in that than in reputation.
In cash, most justly paid.
Let me see.
But I’ll see you soon.
Farewell, hostess.
No, I am a Welshman.
Sit, worthy friends.
No, to my cabin.
Shall we clap into ’t roundly, without hawking or spitting or saying we are hoarse, which are the only prologues to a bad voice?
I shall obey you in all fair commands.
Alas the day!
God bless your Grace!
O Lord, they fight!
It is much that the Moor should be more than reason.
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
He is or ta'en or slain.
Why, mistress, sure my master is horn mad.
I promise you, my soul is very jocund In the remembrance of so fair a dream.
How now, sir?
Now follow, if thou darest, to try whose right, Of thine or mine, is most in Helena.
Many times, madam.
Go to thy cold bed and warm thee.
Be wary, then.
How say you, then?
I will requite your loves.
Your dinner, and the generous islanders By you invited, do attend your presence.
Even such a husband Hast thou of me as she is for a wife.
She’s dead, she’s dead, she’s dead!
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king himself for your succession in Denmark?
If thou takest more Or less than a just pound, be it but so much As makes it light or heavy in the substance Or the division of the twentieth part Of one poor scruple—nay, if the scale do turn But in the estimation of a hair, Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate.
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change, Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse, And all things change them to the contrary.
If I cut my finger, I shall make bold with you.— Your name, honest gentleman?
By my troth, well met.
Then is courtesy a turncoat.
What is ’t o'clock?
Let her have your voice.
He speaks home, madam.
Pray you, look not sad, Nor make replies of loathness.
Virtue is no hornmaker, and my Rosalind is virtuous.
It makes me mad.
I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed.
Do you misdoubt This sword and these my wounds?
Fie upon ’t, foh!
But all the story of the night told over, And all their minds transfigured so together, More witnesseth than fancy’s images And grows to something of great constancy, But, howsoever, strange and admirable.
Those that are in extremity of either are abominable fellows and betray themselves to every modern censure worse than drunkards.
These be the Christian husbands.
Let him bless thee too.
I’ll not believe ’t.
I am none of his skains-mates.
Here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife.
There is no power in Venice Can alter a decree establishèd.
Oh, who hath done this deed?
We have none such, sir.
He was quick mettle when he went to school.
I would not have him miscarry for the half of my dowry.
I cannot live out of her company.
I have been up this hour, awake all night.
Now he begins the story.
I have heard her swear ’t.
Marry, as for Clarence, he is well repaid; He is franked up to fatting for his pains.
Ay, it stands so that I may hardly tarry so long.
What tell’st thou me of robbing?
Some kinds of baseness Are nobly undergone.
So be it.
Thus answer I in the name of Benedick, But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio.
My people do already know my mind And will acknowledge you and Jessica In place of Lord Bassanio and myself.
Kill me tomorrow—let me live tonight!
For us, we will consider of this further.
Stay, madam.
And indeed, my lord, The wretched animal heaved forth such groans That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat Almost to bursting, and the big round tears Coursed one another down his innocent nose In piteous chase.
Thou know’st we work by wit and not by witchcraft, And wit depends on dilatory time.
Hush, Thou think’st there is no more such shapes as he, Having seen but him and Caliban.
If thou hast any sound or use of voice, Speak to me.
We hope to make the sender blush at it.
Before the time I did Lysander see Seemed Athens as a paradise to me.
I am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.
No, I pray thee speak in sober judgment.
The images of revolt and flying off.
What is your name?
Master, I am here entered in bond for you.
Oh, let me see thee walk!
What would you have?
Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field You do me mischief.
Thou dost speak masterly.
How, will she none?
Tell me.
For divers unknown reasons, I beseech you, Grant me this boon.
And patches will I get unto these cudgeled scars, And swear I got them in the Gallia wars.
What makes him here?
O time’s extremity, Hast thou so crack’d and splitted my poor tongue In seven short years that here my only son Knows not my feeble key of untuned cares?
Ay, Caesar, but not gone.
Oh, no, good Kate.
I will not hear thee speak.
Then you are a better than the king.
Scurvy knave!
Infer fair England’s peace by this alliance.
Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is now crept into a lute string and now governed by stops— Indeed, that tells a heavy tale for him.
All three Now marry in an instant.
Let her be round with him, And I’ll be placed, so please you, in the ear Of all their conference.
Come not in here, nuncle.
Take him for all in all.
I will help you to ’t.
Am I not an inch of fortune better than she?
Presently.
Faith, her privates we.
In such a night Did young Lorenzo swear he loved her well, Stealing her soul with many vows of faith, And ne'er a true one.
Sir, the Queen.
Dispatch.—O love, That thou couldst see my wars today, and knew’st The royal occupation!
You shall advise me in all for Cleopatra.
What shall we do else?
No further, sir.
Natures of such deep trust we shall much need.
Is thy union here?
I must attend mine office, Or would have done ’t myself.
Could I repair what she will wear in me As I can change these poor accoutrements, 'Twere well for Kate and better for myself.
This feather stirs.
My lord, we were sent for.
Pluck them asunder.
Did you ever cure any so?
Sblood, but you’ll not hear me!
This damned witch Sycorax, For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible To enter human hearing, from Argier, Thou know’st, was banished.
Very gladly.
Nor have I seen More that I may call men than you, good friend, And my dear father.
His countenance likes me not.
Is ’t come to this?
You are a counterfeit cowardly knave.
Will you mock at an ancient tradition begun upon an honorable respect and worn as a memorable trophy of predeceased valor, and dare not avouch in your deeds any of your words?
The Moor replies That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus And great affinity, and that in wholesome wisdom He might not but refuse you.
Think and die.
Brother, good night.
Go put on thy defenses.
Fear me not, man.
Thou drunken slave, I sent thee for a rope And told thee to what purpose and what end.
He hath commission from thy wife and me To hang Cordelia in the prison and To lay the blame upon her own despair, That she fordid herself.
My villainy they have upon record, which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my shame.
I know thee well.
Ha, ha, ha!
My mistress showed me thee and thy dog and thy bush.
Lo, yonder, and Titinius mourning it.
All the power of his wits have given way to his impatience.
What heir of York is there alive but we?
Marry, here’s grace and a codpiece—that’s a wise man and a fool.
My voice is in my sword.
This accident is not unlike my dream, Belief of it oppresses me already.
On Fortune’s cap we are not the very button.
Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly.
I shall obey you.
In brief, Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved If all could so become it.
It was some fiend.
O, well flown, bird.
Cannot my Lord Stanley sleep these tedious nights?
And so had I, but yet, for fashion sake, I thank you too for your society.
On, lusty gentlemen.
There’s another garment for ’t.
Here comes my man.
I humbly thank you.
Stanley did dream the boar did raze his helm, And I did scorn it and disdain to fly.
O, now let Richmond and Elizabeth, The true succeeders of each royal house, By God’s fair ordinance conjoin together, And let their heirs, God, if thy will be so.
You have been hotly called for.
But I pray you commend my counterfeiting to him.
I am ashamed that women are so simple To offer war where they should kneel for peace; Or seek for rule, supremacy and sway When they are bound to serve, love, and obey.
Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit.
Follow me and receive ’t.
No, indeed, my lord.
And know it now
Think’st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown from adulation?
Hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards, poets, cannot Think, speak, cast, write, sing, number—hoo!— His love to Antony.
What a long night is this!
I leave him to your gracious acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his commendation.” You hear the learned Bellario, what he writes.
Or else what follows?
I see, sir, you are eaten up with passion.
Feed him with apricoks and dewberries, With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries.
Ay, my good lord.
 you can’t expect women to be faithful when men are so unreliable.
I will speak daggers to her but use none.
Here in the tent.
Tis destiny unshunnable, like death.
Your loves, as mine to you.
He speaks well.
And till she come, as truly as to heaven I do confess the vices of my blood So justly to your grave ears I’ll present How I did thrive in this fair lady’s love And she in mine.
That’s my good son.
Speak, I charge you.
To our shores Throng many doubtful hollow-hearted friends, Unarmed and unresolved to beat them back.
Very many, men and women too.
I beseech you, sir, go.
But art thou not advised, he took some care To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her?
His flight was madness.
Romeo, come forth.
Let him write down the Prince’s officer “coxcomb.” Come, bind them.—Thou naughty varlet!
Are you not a strumpet?
Dighton and Forrest, whom I did suborn To do this piece of ruthless butchery, Albeit they were fleshed villains, bloody dogs, Melted with tenderness and mild compassion, Wept like two children in their deaths' sad story.
Farewell.
The king, His brother, and yours, abide all three distracted, And the remainder mourning over them, Brimful of sorrow and dismay.
What do I fear?
Let me hear Agrippa further speak.
Though I struck him first, yet it’s no matter for that.
He is welcome hither.
I am boy to them all three, but all they three, though they would serve me, could not be man to me.
Why, I have eat none yet.
God be wi' you.
Would it not grieve a woman to be overmastered with a piece of valiant dust?
Oh, he’s returned, and as pleasant as ever he was.
Mistress!
To Baptista Minola.
Was this before the king returned?
That you have wronged me doth appear in this
No.
what mistress, slave, hast thou?
I pray you, pardon me.
If they make you not then the better answer, you may say they are not the men you took them for.
The enemy, marching along by them, By them shall make a fuller number up, Come on refreshed, new-added, and encouraged, From which advantage shall we cut him off If at Philippi we do face him there, These people at our back.
But yet, I say, If imputation and strong circumstances Which lead directly to the door of truth Will give you satisfaction, you may have ’t.
Speak.
Courage, man.
Not I, believe me.
The captain that did bring me first on shore Hath my maid’s garments.
O sir, I do, and will repute you ever The patron of my life and liberty.
He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it.
Before me, she’s a good wench.
I say a devil.
Say it, Othello.
Oh, relation Too nice and yet too true!
Detain no jot, I charge thee.
O, my poor brother!
You, Pyramus' father.—Myself, Thisbe’s father.—Snug the joiner, you, the lion’s part.—And I hope here is a play fitted.
Let them not live to taste this land’s increase, That would with treason wound this fair land’s peace.
Some of my shame, if you will know of me What man I am, and how, and why, and where This handkercher was stained.
You talk!
No, not an oath.
I know by that same eye there’s some good news.
Your son and daughter found this trespass worth The shame which here it suffers.
I am glad of your departure.
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland, To th' ambassadors of England gives This warlike volley.
I think it was to see my mother’s wedding.
Tarry, good Beatrice.
I’ll yield him thee asleep, Where thou mayst knock a nail into his head.
Budge not,” says my conscience.
Oh, monstrous!
If you have poison for me, I will drink it.
Yet I will adventure.
Ay, and that thou and the proudest of you all shall find when he comes home.
Death is my heir.
With this, my lord, myself have naught to do.
My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope Says it will come to th’ full.
She’s cold.
Look where they come.
I will neither be faced nor braved.
There’s more depends on this than on the value.
Of what nature the wrongs are thou hast done him, I know not, but thy intercepter, full of despite, bloody as the hunter, attends thee at the orchard end.
Look, where she comes.
Arrest him, officer.
The former Hero!
Come hither, Leonato.
O Cassius, I am sick of many griefs.
Let Rome be thus informed.
I doubt not but his friends will turn to us.
Come not near Casca.
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand Such as I am.
Why then, the beef, and let the mustard rest.
O Brutus!
He’s that he is.
Thou naughty knave, what trade?
What’s this for?
There’s money for thee.
Though for myself alone I would not be ambitious in my wish To wish myself much better, yet for you I would be trebled twenty times myself— A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times more rich— That only to stand high in your account I might in virtue, beauties, livings, friends Exceed account.
Here all eyes gaze on us.
Yes, I have gained my experience.
Said he not so?
Sweet Sir Andrew!
I’ll back to the duke of Gloucester and tell him so.
Let him alone.
My cousin Westmoreland?
Most mighty duke, behold a man much wronged.
How sweet is love itself possessed When but love’s shadows are so rich in joy!
I wear it for a memorable honor, For I am Welsh, you know, good countryman.
I am not what I am.
Ho, ho, ho!
The ox hath therefore stretched his yoke in vain, The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn Hath rotted ere his youth attained a beard.
What said Northumberland as touching Richmond?
All which we pine for now.
What a life is this That your poor friends must woo your company?
It is a kind of history.
Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard.
How idly do they talk!
Sweet Prince, why speak not you?
Then let your servants bring my husband forth.
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
The king himself is rode to view their battle.
I could not forget you, for I never saw you before in all my life.
The murmuring surge That on th' unnumbered idle pebbles chafes Cannot be heard so high.
What a pestilent knave is this same!
No, I warrant you.
If not, your pardon and my return shall be the end of my business.
You have simply misused our sex in your love-prate.
Where virtue is, these are more virtuous.
Serve you, sir.
Heavens keep him from these beasts!
How is ’t with you?
What is the course and drift of your compact?
Ay, sir, we are some of her trappings.
It is.
I am that merry wanderer of the night.
Be it so.
His nurse?
Thou hast harped my fear aright.
O, would to God that the inclusive verge Of golden metal that must round my brow Were red-hot steel to sear me to the brains!
Quail, crush, conclude, and quell!
For no kind of traffic Would I admit.
So will you wish on me when the rash mood is on.
Hark!
You’ll bear me a bang for that, I fear.
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damnèd Dane, Drink off this potion.
Since he went from Egypt ’tis A space for farther travel.
Haply in private.
A good and virtuous nature may recoil In an imperial charge.
Poor bird!
If you do sweat to put a tyrant down, You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain.
Tis age that nourisheth.
I’ll go alone.
Our severed navy too Have knit again, and fleet, threat’ning most sealike.
Do you come near me now?
Ha, ha!
For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear you.
Do not rise yet.
If he have the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil, I had rather he should shrive me than wive me.
Say, my spirit, How fares the king and ’s followers?
Never.
Has he, masters?
Call them forth.  
One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
The venom clamors of a jealous woman Poisons more deadly than a mad dog’s tooth.
Yet say I, he is in love.
Why, ’tis not possible.
But she as far surpasseth Sycorax As great’st does least.
She shall not.
Be not too late.
Here comes the noble Antony.
I see the business.
And shall, or some of us will smart for it.
Marry, heaven forbid!
Why I should fear I know not, Since guiltiness I know not.
Let it appear so.
Amen, with all my heart.
I hope, for my brother’s justification, he wrote this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.   
I will show myself a tyrant.
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied, And vice sometime by action dignified.
Fare you well, my lord.
She bids you come to her.
Pleaseth your Majesty to give me leave, I’ll muster up my friends and meet your Grace Where and what time your Majesty shall please.
That’s one of them.
No, faith, not a jot.
Fetch thy master home.
A man, as you are.
Only foul words, and thereupon I will kiss thee.
Yea, even I alone.
Her dotage now I do begin to pity.
To who?
Oh, fie upon thee, slanderer!
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
Hood my unmanned blood bating in my cheeks, With thy black mantle, till strange love, grow bold, Think true love acted simple modesty.
Is it upon record, or else reported Successively from age to age, he built it?
Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home.
 it’s because of a law as plain as Father Time’s bald head.
What work is here, Charmian?
 to salute the noble princes who are staying there.
Today the lords you talked of are beheaded.
His life I gave him and did thereto add My love, without retention or restraint, All his in dedication.
Her head’s declined, and death will seize her but Your comfort makes the rescue.
Did I not meet thy friends?
My lord, the army of great Buckingham— Out on you, owls!
His majesty, Tend'ring my person’s safety, hath appointed This conduct to convey me to the Tower.
Fool!
Here is the place, my lord.
The first that there did greet my stranger-soul Was my great father-in-law, renownèd Warwick, Who spake aloud, “What scourge for perjury Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?” And so he vanished.
By the mass, I was about to say something.
A conduit, girl?
Bind up my wounds!
His better doth not breathe upon the earth.
Why, how now, Adam?
Oh, yet I do repent me of my fury, That I did kill them.
He was a goodly king.
Indeed, sweet love, I was coming to your house.
I’ll go find a shadow and sigh till he come.
My good lord.
Oh, ho!
And may, but how?
He’s bound unto Octavia.
And when she weeps, weeps every little flower, Lamenting some enforcèd chastity.
I am not merry, but I do beguile The thing I am by seeming otherwise.
Know then I came before you here a man prepared To take this offer, but Mark Antony Put me to some impatience.
Seest not?
Bid them move away.
Have done thy charm, thou hateful, withered hag.
Stop that, ’twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney.
What manner of man?
By this leek, I will most horribly revenge.
We are arrant knaves, all.
Ha, ha, ha!
Is not that neighborly?
Here, Fluellen, wear thou this favor for me and stick it in thy cap.
And come with naked swords.
And I’ll go to bed at noon.
I anger her sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer man.
I am sure you know him well enough.
The revenges we are bound to take upon your traitorous father are not fit for your beholding.
I would not for the wealth of all the town Here in my house do him disparagement.
 he’s out of control.
O, be gone!
Aye, sir.
If you be pleased, retire into my cell And there repose.
Take but good note, and you shall see in him The triple pillar of the world transformed Into a strumpet’s fool.
Tis such another fitchew.
Oh, say so, and so be!
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
Yet here, Laertes?
This wind you talk of, blows us from ourselves.
May we do so?
Therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt.
Alas, my lord, Your wisdom is consumed in confidence.
Tis in my memory locked, And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
Marry, this it is, sir.
It is no matter.
Come, no matter vor your foins.
Follow me not.
Uncle!
You have her father’s love, Demetrius.
Your Majesty shall mock at me.
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand, Unbated and envenomed.
Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly?
Cannot a plain man live and think no harm, But thus his simple truth must be abused With silken, sly, insinuating jacks?
No, since.
Now, Iras, what think’st thou?
Oh, did he so?
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair, To merit bliss by making me despair.
But I know none, and therefore am no beast.
Unto the dignity and height of fortune, The high imperial type of this earth’s glory.
 it’d be better for the enemy to come after us.
Take me up.
Give me excess of it that, surfeiting, The appetite may sicken, and so die.
I pray thee, hold thy peace.
Patience, I pray you!
What say you then to Falconbridge, the young baron of England?
Dost thou not suspect my years?
I must take out the work?
Trip, Audrey, trip, Audrey.—I attend, I attend.
I hear his trumpet.
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship And needly will be ranked with other griefs, Why followed not, when she said “Tybalt’s dead,” “Thy father” or “thy mother,” nay, or both, Which modern lamentations might have moved?
Prince Dauphin, you shall stay with us in Rouen.
Bless thee from whirlwinds, star-blasting, and taking!
An you be mine, I’ll give you to my friend.
We’ll burn his body in the holy place, And with the brands fire the traitors' houses.
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
Bid me farewell.
Victory sits on our helms.
Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
God’s arm strike with us!
Lend me thy cloak, Sir Thomas.
Your plantain leaf is excellent for that.
Ha!
She Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan, Of whom so often I have heard renown But never saw before, of whom I have Received a second life.
No, by no means.
Did he never make you laugh?
Dove-feathered raven, wolvish-ravening lamb!
Talkers are no good doers.
The table’s full.
It beckons you to go away with it, As if it some impartment did desire To you alone.
Here lies the east.
Despise me If I do not.
What should he be?
Go to him, madam, speak to him.
Come with my lady hither.
He.
Dull thing, I say so.
Well-a-day that you were, sir.
Her hair, what color?
I protest I love thee.
Here’s a spirit.
I thank you.
 hot and fast and full of whimsy and illusion.
Bassanio told him he would make some speed Of his return.
With all my heart.
I’ll follow this good man, and go with you; And, having sworn truth, ever will be true.
O sir, you are too sure an augurer.
Affection!
You call me misbeliever, cutthroat dog, And spet upon my Jewish gaberdine— And all for use of that which is mine own.
Where’s Romeo?
Tell me but truly—but then speak the truth— Do you not love my sister?
Look where she comes.
O, forgive me my sins!
Follow, follow!
He does well to commend it himself.
Tis so strange That, though the truth of it stands off as gross As black and white, my eye will scarcely see it.
What thinkest thou of his opinion?
 I have never in my life loved my brother.
Delay not, Caesar.
Or do you but counterfeit?
Come, let’s do so.
Take heed, sirrah—the whip.
O momentary grace of mortal men, Which we more hunt for than the grace of God!
How prove you that in the great heap of your knowledge?
He is justly served.
What, shall we toward the Tower?
To both their deaths shalt thou be accessory.
The consequence is, then, thy jealous fits Have scared thy husband from the use of wits.
 you need to be fixed.
The contents, as in part I understand them, are to blame.
Come, shall we fall to work?
Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.
Oh, what a world is this when what is comely Envenoms him that bears it!
A plague upon you all!
But there’s more work.
Thou livest.
I am not to you known, Though in your state of honor I am perfect.
We must obey the time.
Well met, my lord.
A witty mother!
How fearful And dizzy ’tis to cast one’s eyes so low!
I have spoke thus much To mitigate the justice of thy plea, Which if thou follow, this strict court of Venice Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there.
Lord of lords!
Then to have seen much and to have nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands.
I am your host.
So fare you well.
All but mariners Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel, Then all afire with me.
I charge thee do so, as thou art my child.
Mark Antony, shall we give sign of battle?
I know that we shall have him well to friend.
I will survey th' inscriptions back again.
Himself in person there?
She has robbed me of my sword.
And supportable To make the dear loss have I means much weaker Than you may call to comfort you, for I Have lost my daughter.
Iago, who began ’t?
What’s thy passion?
Scurvy knave!  
That must we also.
It is, my lord.
No, forbear.
Even when you please, since you will have it so.
But near him thy angel Becomes afeard, as being o’erpowered.
Now my spirit is going.
Judge me the world if ’tis not gross in sense That thou hast practiced on her with foul charms, Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals That weakens motion.
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Let’s to bed, knight.
Catesby, o'erlook the walls.
That’s not so good now.
If you should die before him, where’s her dower?
There is but one mind in all these men, and it is bent against Caesar.
There was blow for blow.
A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.
Stay yet.
I will possess you of that ship and treasure.
Where be these bloody thieves?
O my daughter, Fled with a Christian!
Jailer, look to him.
Then there is the County Palatine.
Some other time.
How think you of it?
This Lodovico is a proper man.
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine, And all combined, save what thou must combine By holy marriage.
It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard discourse, my lord.
What is this castle called that stands hard by?
Sister, content you in my discontent.— Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe.
What is the matter here?
On the sixth hour, at which time, my lord, You said our work should cease.
But if the cause be not good, the king himself hath a heavy reckoning to make, when all those legs and arms and heads, chopped off in a battle, shall join together at the latter day, and cry all, “We died at such a place,” some swearing, some crying for a surgeon, some upon their wives left poor behind them, some upon the debts they owe, some upon their children rawly left.
Time is come round, And where I did begin, there shall I end.
I thank you, doctor.
Come your ways.
Would you not swear, All you that see her, that she were a maid By these exterior shows?
No grave upon the earth shall clip in it A pair so famous.
No child but Hero; she’s his only heir.
To see a reverend Syracusian merchant, Who put unluckily into this bay Against the laws and statutes of this town, Beheaded publicly for his offense.
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
Your servants ever Have theirs, themselves, and what is theirs in compt, To make their audit at your highness' pleasure, Still to return your own.
Maybe the letter moved him, For, as I think, they do command him home, Deputing Cassio in his government.
Why should the poor be flattered?
What to him from England?
She confesses it.
Do you believe his “tenders,” as you call them?
I tell you, Captain, if you look in the maps of the 'orld, I warrant you shall find, in the comparisons between Macedon and Monmouth, that the situations, look you, is both alike. 
Oh, I am slain!
What should I say, sweet lady?
We do not mean the coursing snatchers only, But fear the main intendment of the Scot, Who hath been still a giddy neighbor to us.
Ay, my good lord.
But, Roderigo, if thou hast that in thee indeed, which I have greater reason to believe now than ever—I mean purpose, courage and valor—this night show it.
Get you gone And hasten your return.
Bring me to Antony.
What dost thou mean?
Kneel to the duke before he pass the abbey.
His words were, “Farewell, mistress.” Nothing else.
Good Romeo, hide thyself.
Now let it work.
Nor I.
To make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?
I’ll have no bigger.
Tell me once more what title thou dost bear.
O lamentable day!
Then you do not love me?
I had been happy if the general camp, Pioneers and all, had tasted her sweet body, So I had nothing known.
O cursed, cursed slave!
His hour is almost past.
Oh, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory.
Go.
An I may hide my face, let me play Thisbe too!
For me, the gold of France did not seduce, Although I did admit it as a motive The sooner to effect what I intended; But God be thankèd for prevention, Which I in sufferance heartily will rejoice, Beseeching God and you to pardon me.
Ha, art thou bedlam?
I do not desire he should answer for me, and yet I determine to fight lustily for him.
His royal grace, Whom God preserve better than you would wish, Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing while But you must trouble him with lewd complaints.
What, art thou waking?
Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones.
I pray you, will you take him by the arm?
If thou account’st it shame, lay it on me, And therefore frolic!
Did he not say my brother was fled?
Is the sword unswayed?
What’s your will?
John Duke of Norfolk, Walter, Lord Ferrers, Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
Make me to see ’t, or at the least so prove it That the probation bear no hinge nor loop To hang a doubt on, or woe upon thy life!
My lord, he doth deny to come.
And leave us, Publius, lest that the people, Rushing on us, should do your age some mischief.
I never knew woman love man so.
The readiest way to make the wench amends Is to become her husband and her father; The which will I, not all so much for love As for another secret close intent By marrying her which I must reach unto.
O Antony!
If you had known the virtue of the ring, Or half her worthiness that gave the ring, Or your own honor to contain the ring, You would not then have parted with the ring.
They fell together all, as by consent.
He hath been most notoriously abused.
There lies your way.
 much luck is on my side, and my enemies have happened to wreck their ship on this island.
Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
I’ll play the housewife for this once.
So ho!
I do not like her name.
Peace, you rogue, no more o' that.
I think it be, sir.
Provoke him that he may.
My father’s spirit in arms.
Humh!
But why should honor outlive honesty?
Thou 'lt be afraid to hear it.
I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor.
They could be content To visit other places, and come down With fearful bravery, thinking by this face To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage.
Me, poor man, my library Was dukedom large enough.
Tis time that I were gone.
Nay, I will do so.
Lo, here I lie, Never to rise again.
Nobody marks you.
Where’s the king?
My present business calls me from you now.
We have no friend But resolution, and the briefest end.
Is ’t so, indeed?
Call my guard, I prithee.
It gives me wonder great as my content To see you here before me.
She shall be buried by her Antony.
Softly, my masters.
Sir, I must have that diamond from you.
And wilt thou have me?
What’s that good for?
Open your gates.
We’ll give them present audience.
What news, Borachio?
Even what it please my lord that shall become him.
Speak again.
Should I not say, “Hath a dog money?
There was more foolery yet, if I could remember it.
 his father’s dying and our quick marriage.
Noble Antony, not sickness should detain me.
My friends told me as much, and I thought no less.
Hast thou not a word of joy?
Hark thee, Clitus.
They shall be married tomorrow, and I will bid the duke to the nuptial.
No sovereignty—     Yet he would be king on ’t.
Does any here know me?
But it becomes me well enough, does ’t not?
Or if thou hast not sat as I do now, Wearying thy hearer in thy mistress’s praise, Thou hast not loved.
They are natural.” For I believe they are portentous things Unto the climate that they point upon.
Put your torches out.
When good manners shall lie all in one or two men’s hands, and they unwashed too, ’tis a foul thing.
In the street I met him, And in his company that gentleman.
Fairy King, attend, and mark.
Speak low if you speak love.
You amaze me.
Hath not else his eye Stray’d his affection in unlawful love, A sin prevailing much in youthful men Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing?
Where is my lord the duke of Gloucester?
Is not marriage honorable in a beggar?
Twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen, And now I find report a very liar.
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
This is his second fit.
Ariel, thy charge Exactly is performed.
Good night—but go not to mine uncle’s bed.
I remember when I was in love I broke my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for coming a- night to Jane Smile.
If it please His Majesty, ’tis the breathing time of day with me.
Let’s follow the old earl, and get the Bedlam To lead him where he would.
Put them to motion.
Then leave her, sir, for by the power that made me, I tell you all her wealth.
Your old smock brings forth a new petticoat, and indeed the tears live in an onion that should water this sorrow.
Well met here.
You know my mind.
So the sins of my mother should be visited upon me.
I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower.
But are my brother’s powers set forth?
In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on.
Thou, why, thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast.
Let this be so.
We are enough yet living in the field To smother up the English in our throngs, If any order might be thought upon.
Tis a fair young man, and well attended.
Away!
My young master doth expect your reproach.
Not her that chides, sir, at any hand, I pray.
Be valiant, and speed well.
For me, three thousand ducats.
There I have another bad match!—a bankrupt, a prodigal who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto, a beggar that was used to come so smug upon the mart.
Is my master and his wife coming, Grumio?
Why, I am sure, if he forfeit thou wilt not take his flesh.
Hast thou drunk well?
But where tomorrow?
Didst thou not say he lied?
Good night.
Grace go with you, sir.
I thank thee.
I am bid forth to supper, Jessica.
But I with blowing the fire shall warm myself.
Good sir, this ring was given me by my wife.
This lanthorn doth the hornèd moon present.
Why, ’tis good to be sad and say nothing.
For Juliet’s sake, for her sake, rise and stand.
As thou art to thyself.
Shut doors after you.
This is a devil, and no monster.
Thou, it seems, that calls for company to countenance her.
 the earldom of Hereford and all the possessions that go with it.
Malvolio’s coming down this walk.
Hence “banishèd” is banished from the world, And world’s exile is death.
Some tender money to me; some invite me; Some other give me thanks for kindnesses; Some offer me commodities to buy.
Tis to be doubted, madam.
Fear’st thou that, Antonio?
Thanks, dear my lord.
Shall Kate be my wife?
Tell me, good my friend, What torch is yond that vainly lends his light To grubs and eyeless skulls?
But in this kind, wanting your father’s voice, The other must be held the worthier.
Nay, but the devil take mocking.
See, see, our honored hostess!
Tell them that you know that Hero loves me.
What prisoners of good sort are taken, uncle?
But these offers, Which serve not for his vantage, he shakes off, And so should you.
I know no touch of it, my lord.
The business she hath broached in the state Cannot endure my absence.
Yea, very force entangles Itself with strength.
Find out this villain, Edmund.
Ah, for our father, for our dear lord Clarence!
Gallants, I am not as I have been.
This is the place.
Look, my lord, it comes!
First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I ask thee what’s their offense; sixth and lastly, why they are committed; and, to conclude, what you lay to their charge.
The gods do this in shame of cowardice.
O horror, horror, horror!
O no, my reasons are too deep and dead— Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their graves.
Where is your servant Caius?
I am not bound to please thee with my answers.
I pray you, Let not my jealousies be your dishonors, But mine own safeties.
And you must cut this flesh from off his breast.
What wouldst thou have with me?
I fear ’tis choleric.
Ev'n as your horse bears your praises—who would trot as well were some of your brags dismounted.
My best way is to creep under his gaberdine.
Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
Where have you hid yourself?
Not Cassio killed!
And, friends, disperse yourselves.
Fear you not my part of the dialogue.
It is a great price for a small vice.
Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower And was embarked to cross to Burgundy, And in my company my brother Gloucester, Who from my cabin tempted me to walk Upon the hatches.
Ay me, detested!
They did so, to th' amazement of mine eyes That looked upon ’t.
O, help him, you sweet heavens!
There, my blessing with thee.
Well, Catesby, ere a fortnight make me older I’ll send some packing that yet think not on ’t.
Are yet two Romans living such as these?
Delay this marriage for a month, a week.
It might have since been answered in repaying What we took from them, which, for traffic’s sake, Most of our city did.
Relent, sweet Hermia—And, Lysander, yield Thy crazèd title to my certain right.
I cannot tell; I think not.
What further woe conspires against mine age?
You may be pleased to catch at mine intent By what did here befall me.
I will tomorrow— And betimes I will—to the weird sisters.
Now, I’ll stand to it, the pancakes were naught and the mustard was good, and yet was not the knight forsworn.
A guiltless death I die.
O Cassius, if you could But win the noble Brutus to our party— Be you content.
Then is there mirth in heaven When earthly things, made even, Atone together.
Lord, let me never have a cause to sigh, Till I be brought to such a silly pass!
I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing.
He bears The third part of the world, man.
Help, help, help!
He’ll speak with you, will you or no.
Dost thou think so, spirit?
Sir, this is the matter—  I beseech you, remember— Nay, good my lord, for mine ease, in good faith.
Well, let’s away and say how much is done.
Would you would bear your fortune like a man!
That I was disdainful and that I had my good wit out of The Hundred Merry Tales!
An eagle, madam, Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye As Paris hath.
My brother’s love, the devil, and my rage.
I will die, And leave him all.
We all expect a gentle answer, Jew.
Oh, thou art deceived.
Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump, The spirit-stirring drum, th' ear-piercing fife, The royal banner, and all quality, Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war!
Tis now struck twelve.
I understand moreover, upon the Rialto, he hath a third at Mexico, a fourth for England, and other ventures he hath squandered abroad. 
Thou hast quarreled with a man for coughing in the street because he hath wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun.
Leave me, Iago.
I’ll make you quiet.—What, cheerly, my hearts!
O madam, madam, madam!
They will scarcely believe this without trial.
For I am sure, Though you can guess what temperance should be, You know not what it is.
Not dead?
Why have you left the chamber?
Why, you gave no gold to me!
I know a wench of excellent discourse, Pretty and witty, wild and yet, too, gentle.
Who is conductor of his people?
As well as I can, madam.
They are all but stomachs, and we all but food.
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
Either heaven with lightning strike the murderer dead, Or earth gape open wide and eat him quick, As thou dost swallow up this good king’s blood, Which his hell-governed arm hath butcherèd!
Let us come in, that we may bind him fast And bear him home for his recovery.
O noble sir!
For these fellows of infinite tongue, that can rhyme themselves into ladies' favors, they do always reason themselves out again.
I say you are not.
Well, all is one.
And the queen too, and that presently.
Be pleased to tell us— For this is from the present—how you take The offers we have sent you.
Or did the letters work upon his blood And new-create his fault?
I deny it not.
And fair words to them.
What is to be said to him, lady?
Come, boy, with me.
Persever, counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when I turn my back, Wink each at other, hold the sweet jest up— This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled.
Look how thou dream’st!
You shall never take her without her answer unless you take her without her tongue.
Let’s follow.
I dare not, sir.
Why, but you are now well enough.
Tis a pageant, To keep us in false gaze.
I “an itching palm”!
Why that’s with watching, ’twill away again.
Ay, what of that?
Come, my lord.
I am.
That shall you know hereafter.
I know not what to say.
The beds i’ th’ East are soft, and thanks to you, That called me timelier than my purpose hither, For I have gained by ’t.
Tut, I am in their bosoms, and I know Wherefore they do it.
O excellent motion!
Avaunt, you cullions!
Alas, and woe!
Who has done this, Sir Andrew?
But when I tell him he hates flatterers, He says he does, being then most flatterèd.
Let’s call more help To have them bound again.
Tis no such matter.
For this relief much thanks.
What?
My lord, I have news to tell you.
There’s no composition in this news That gives them credit.
No, truly.
I take pleasure in singing, sir.
Good Corporal Nym, show thy valor and put up your sword.
Come you from old Bellario?
Give me thy arm.
Where the place?
You shall have ransom.
She is too big, I hope, for me to compass.
They’ll have me whipped for speaking true, thou'lt have me whipped for lying, and sometimes I am whipped for holding my peace.
This shall end without the perdition of souls.
There’s something else to do.
But for your husband, He is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows The fits o' th' season.
Where’s thy conscience now?
One from the Lord Stanley.
The death of Antony Is not a single doom.
Ay, to me.
Here it is.
I saw them not.
I know he would not be a wolf But that he sees the Romans are but sheep.
Upon the platform, ’twixt eleven and twelve, I’ll visit you.
A good sharp fellow.
For me, I’ll not be gone till I please myself.
I doubt not that, since we are well-persuaded We carry not a heart with us from hence That grows not in a fair consent with ours, Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish Success and conquest to attend on us.
You shall hear me.
The bark is ready and the wind at help, Th' associates tend, and everything is bent For England.
Pray you come in.
Miserable England, I prophesy the fearfull’st time to thee That ever wretched age hath looked upon.— Come, lead me to the block.
But your news is not true.
No.
Oh, by no means.
I wrote to you When rioting in Alexandria.
I promise you I scarcely know myself.
Sayest thou so?
Dost thou think I care for a satire or an epigram?
That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
Tell the constable.
Come, sister.—Shepherdess, look on him better, And be not proud.
I would not kill thy unpreparèd spirit.
Thou art sensible in nothing but blows, and so is an ass.
It harrows me with fear and wonder.
Yes, faith, and all his lords, the Duke of Milan And his brave son being twain.
Demetrius is a worthy gentleman.
Peace!
If thou dost love me Show me thy thought.
Thou art a boil, A plague-sore or embossèd carbuncle In my corrupted blood.
Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
I never shall endure her.
You’ll have your nephews neigh to you.
Vouchsafe, divine perfection of a woman, Of these supposèd crimes to give me leave By circumstance but to acquit myself.
Heavens shield Lysander if they mean a fray!
In her consists my happiness and thine.
My liege, here is a villain and a traitor, that, look your Grace, has struck the glove which your Majesty is take out of the helmet of Alençon.
Wast thou mad, That thus so madly thou didst answer me?
The wisdom of your duty, fair Bianca, Hath cost me an hundred crowns since suppertime.
She did commend my yellow stockings of late, she did praise my leg being cross-gartered, and in this she manifests herself to my love, and with a kind of injunction, drives me to these habits of her liking.
Oh!
Pardon this fault, and by my soul I swear I never more will break an oath with thee.
God keep your Ladyship still in that mind, so some gentle- man or other shall ’scape a predestinate scratched face.
Well, madam, and in health.
I must go seek some dewdrops here  And hang a pearl in every cowslip’s ear.
Therefore, when he sees reason of fears as we do, his fears, out of doubt, be of the same relish as ours are.
I’ll to the throng.
Pour on, I will endure.
Y'are a baggage, the Slys are no rogues.
So was I when your Highness banished him.
Fare thee well.
Tell him I’ll knock his leek about his pate Upon Saint Davy’s day.
A king, perhaps— My lord— How chance the prophet could not at that time Have told me, I being by, that I should kill him?
Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
But let me hear the letter of your friend.
Where is he?
Tis spoken well.
It must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
Besides, old Gremio is heark'ning still, And happily we might be interrupted.
Thou dost, and think’st it much to tread the ooze Of the salt deep, To run upon the sharp wind of the north, To do me business in the veins o' th' earth When it is baked with frost.
Let it alone.
Why, this it is when men are ruled by women.
For the love o' God, peace!
I have a beard coming.
Why should not we Be there in person?
As I am Egypt’s queen, Thou blushest, Antony, and that blood of thine Is Caesar’s homager.
If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a more delicate way than drowning.
O woeful, woeful, woeful day!
A little, by your favor.
Look, here I have you.
Where’s thy drum?
Where is the Master, Boatswain?
I am not well in health, and that is all.
Poor soul!
Peace!
Therefore turn and draw.
Why, farewell, Portia.
Heaven knows what she has known.
And art thou living, Stephano?
Let it be so.
I’ll fume with them!” And with that word she struck me on the head, And through the instrument my pate made way,
And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn, Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
Since the torch is out, Lie down and stray no farther.
I never hated thee.
For if thou dost intend Never so little show of love to her, Thou shalt aby it.
It is perchance that you yourself were saved.
Good signior, you shall more command with years Than with your weapons.
It is twice blessed
This was looked for at your hand, and this was balked.
What then?
The messengers from our sister and the king.
Oh yes, my lord.
I will leave you now to your gossip-like humor.
Well, well, well.
Was ever man so weary?
I am not mad.
Fie, Fie, lieutenant, You’ll be ashamed for ever.
With the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and prove an ass.
Oh, here Will I set up my everlasting rest, And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars From this world-wearied flesh.
Thieves!
When I presented Ceres, I thought to have told thee of it, but I feared Lest I might anger thee.
Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
Come on.
My honored lord!
Come, shall we hear this music?
My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena!
My sickness grows upon me.
He calls to horse, but will I know not whither.
I’ll ride your horse as well as I ride you.
I saw ’t i' the orchard.
Pompey Thrives in our idleness.
O plague right well prevented!
Most monsterlike be shown For poor’st diminutives, for dolts, and let Patient Octavia plow thy visage up With her preparèd nails!
Oh, let us hence.
Therefore I have entreated him along With us to watch the minutes of this night, That if again this apparition come He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
How say you, Cassio?
If all the wine in my bottle will recover him, I will help his ague.
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
He cannot prevail with me.
Tis marvel, but that you are but newly come, You might have heard it else proclaimed about.
And most poor matters Point to rich ends.
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack.
Stay, then.
Stand from the body.
Give me some wine and let me speak a little.
Oh ho, are you there with me?
I had rather than forty pound I were at home.
You’ll find it otherwise, I assure you.
Demetrius loves your fair.
We shall ne'er be younger.
When this burns, 'Twill weep for having wearied you.
They swore that you were almost sick for me.
The foul fiend bites my back.
I leave my duty a little unthought of and speak out of my injury.
Heaven rest them now.
Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
Her name is Margery, indeed.
You must to Parthia.
Nor I.
Prithee, nuncle, be contented.
What offense, sweet Beatrice?
Fellow, come from the throng.
Do it not with poison.
Marry, I’ll teach you.
If I myself, there is no hour so fit As Caesar’s death’s hour, nor no instrument Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich With the most noble blood of all this world.
I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold Can in this desert place buy entertainment, Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed.
Give me thy hand, Roderigo.
No, none by me.
My sweet Cassio!
Is he come home yet?
His passport shall be made, And crowns for convoy put into his purse.
Take what wife you will to bed, I will ever be your head.
For if the Jew do cut but deep enough, I’ll pay it presently with all my heart.
Good guard Until their greater pleasures first be known That are to censure them.
I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace, and it better fits my blood to be disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any.
Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly ordered, And better in my mind not undertook.
O Margaret, Margaret, now thy heavy curse Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head.
But where the greater malady is fixed The lesser is scarce felt.
If you have any music that may not be heard, to ’t again.
Dispute it like a man.
Thou hast a sister by the mother’s side, Admired Octavia.
I do not think there is any such woman.
Dismayed not this our captains, Macbeth and Banquo?
We’ll hear him.—Noble Antony, go up.
It is the part of men to fear and tremble When the most mighty gods by tokens send Such dreadful heralds to astonish us.
I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it.
Well, bawd I’ll turn, And something lean to cutpurse of quick hand.
Come on.
We came crying hither.
Where is my lord?
We shall, my lord.
And, gentle master, I received no gold.
Why seek’st thou me?
Look you, Cassio and my husband!
The pig, or the great, or the mighty, or the huge, or the magnanimous are all one reckonings, save the phrase is a little variations.
I must obey.
One inch of delay more is a South Sea of discovery.
Out, alas!
Will money buy 'em?
Besides, you grow dishonest.
Thus goes everyone to the world but I, and I am sunburnt.
Do it, England, For like the hectic in my blood he rages, And thou must cure me.
Did you not speak to it?
Then away she started To deal with grief alone.
But ships are but boards, sailors but men.
Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides.
Treason!
I do wander everywhere  Swifter than the moon’s sphere.
Be curst and brief.
What should that bode?
I do love nothing in the world so well as you.
Oh, if it prove, Tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love!
Stay, Tybalt, stay!
Being holiday, the beggar’s shop is shut.
Ay, and twenty such.
Rather your eyes must with his judgment look.
What would she have?
And Trinculo is reeling ripe.
There is no tarrying here.
My lord, he is but even now gone hence.
Well, I say no.
When he is best he is a little worse than a man, and when he is worst he is little better than a beast.
Peace, children, peace.
And let my liver rather heat with wine Than my heart cool with mortifying groans.
May not one speak?
Did Cicero say anything?
Why then, thou hast it.
I think ’twas Soto that your Honor means.
Give me my armor.
Oh, look, sir, look, sir!
Oh, why rebuke you him that loves you so?
My way is now to hie home to his house And tell his wife that, being lunatic, He rushed into my house and took perforce My ring away.
Wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant?
At my lodging.
Your wives, your daughters, Your matrons, and your maids could not fill up The cistern of my lust, and my desire All continent impediments would o'erbear That did oppose my will.
Corinth first.
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
Nay, you must forget that.
Then let them use us well, else let them know, The ills we do, their ills instruct us so.
Is it possible that any villainy should be so dear?
Do not go forth today.
And your horse now would make him an ass.
Caesar doth bear me hard, but he loves Brutus.
They do me wrong, and I will not endure it!
No, sir, ’tis in grain; Noah’s flood could not do it.
Will you walk in to see their gossiping?
Our duty to your honor.
Lie thou there (throwing down a letter), for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling.
I bespoke it not.
When that’s gone, He shall drink naught but brine, for I’ll not show him Where the quick freshes are.
Tut, tut, my lord, we will not stand to prate.
Nay then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
He is about the house.
Then let your will attend on their accords.
E’en as the o’erflowing Nilus presageth famine.
He’s a traitor.
Two such opposèd kings encamp them still, In man as well as herbs—grace and rude will.
Avoid what is to come.
Then lead the way, good father; and heavens so shine That they may fairly note this act of mine.
If he be taken, he shall never more Be feared of doing harm.
To who, my lord?—Who hath the office?
We first address towards you, who with this king Hath rivaled for our daughter.
And now who knows But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours?
Cast it off!
Fare you well, my liege.
Other women cloy The appetites they feed, but she makes hungry Where most she satisfies, for vilest things Become themselves in her, that the holy priests Bless her when she is riggish.
Keep your word, Silvius, that you’ll marry her If she refuse me.
But i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.
If you will patiently dance in our round And see our moonlight revels, go with us.
Give me up the truth.
Too long a pause for that which you find there.
If this be known, Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back, For I will slay myself.
Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
No way but gentleness, gently, gently.
Go off.
This note doth tell me of ten thousand French That in the field lie slain.
Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly.
And there she shall at Friar Lawrence' cell Be shrived and married.
I have a reasonable good ear in music.
Sometime am I All wound with adders who with cloven tongues Do hiss me into madness.
More light and light, more dark and dark our woes!
I am for thee straight.
Behold the ordnance on their carriages, With fatal mouths gaping on girded Harfleur.
Down with him, thief!
We shall find of him A shrewd contriver.
You are not wood, you are not stones, but men.
Do not weep, do not weep.
He will keep that good name still.
This looks not like a nuptial.
Thy voice is thunder, but thy looks are humble.
Now I am alone.
No, my profound heart.
Yet have I left a daughter.
Here is a rural fellow That will not be denied your Highness’ presence.
We are for you.
Dost thou live by thy tabour?
O murderous slumber, Layst thou thy leaden mace upon my boy That plays thee music?—Gentle knave, good night.
O, serve me well, and teach yourselves that duty!
Made she no verbal question?
Sure, I think so, And therefore certainly it were not good She knew his love, lest she make sport at it.
Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you.
Gave it a judge’s clerk!
Tis true.
Sir, would she give you so much of her lips As of her tongue she oft bestows on me, You’ll have enough.
What is the matter?
Well, then I shall see thee again?
My lord, I have.
Where shall we dine?—O me!
That you do think you are not what you are.
Confusion now hath made his masterpiece.
All is the fear and nothing is the love, As little is the wisdom, where the flight So runs against all reason.
I pray you, look upon her.
Therefore Make space enough between you.
Celerity is never more admired Than by the negligent.
Alas, he is too young.
 ask them how majestically he responded to their message, how well supplied he was with good advisors, how restrained in expressing his displeasure, and, moreover, how terrifyingly firm he was in his resolve.
I’ll get me to a place more void, and there Speak to great Caesar as he comes along.
Oh, she will sing the savageness out of a bear!
But repetition of what thou hast marred.
I will be bitter with him and passing short.
You shall hear more by midnight.
Tis a good silling, I warrant you, or I will change it.
My bounty is as boundless as the sea, My love as deep.
Get thee to bed, Francisco.
I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord.
Caliban!
 naked and blind.
Here, here, sir!
Unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt.
Do you hear, masters?
This is the door.
Pray, then, foresee me one.
You told me you salute not at the court but you kiss your hands.
Hath he asked for me?
How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus gives way to loyalty, something fears me to think of.
As he shall smile, Othello shall go mad.
Good duke, receive thy daughter.
And look you get a prayer book in your hand And stand between two churchmen, good my lord, For on that ground I’ll make a holy descant.
There it goes, Silver!
Come hither, man.
Where do I dwell?
Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
 he was neither sad nor happy.
Hath put himself from rest, And must needs taste his folly.
Having once this juice, I’ll watch Titania when she is asleep And drop the liquor of it in her eyes.
O my good master!
If any man doubt that, let him put me to my purgation.
I will do so.
The handkerchief!
We thank your Honor.
And turns the sun to shade.
Either send the chain, or send me by some token.
Your name, I pray you, friend?
And have not we affections, Desires for sport, and frailty, as men have?
Peace, fool.
Prates too.—What say you, James Soundpost?
Let me not stay a jot for dinner.
What should it be that is so shrieked abroad?
Prithee bear some charity to my wit.
By day and night he wrongs me.
Not being Fortune, he’s but Fortune’s knave, A minister of her will.
Why, man, he’s a very devil.
When devils will the blackest sins put on They do suggest at first with heavenly shows As I do now.
You mistake, sir.
You stayed well by ’t in Egypt.
No greater heart in thee?
Thou canst compel no more than she entreat.
Pray you, be careful.
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds, Behold this pattern of thy butcheries.
Yes, madam.
We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
How doth the lady?
They told me I was everything.
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villainy should be so rich.
There remain And fortify it strongly 'gainst the French.
This is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings, Which in a set hand fairly is engrossed, That it may be today read o'er in Paul’s.
And we did think it writ down in our duty To let you know of it.
When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah?
His employment between his lord and my niece confirms no less.
A ripe age.
I do attend here on the general And think it no addition, nor my wish, To have him see me womaned.
Heard you this, Gonzalo?
Tis no matter how it be in tune, so it make noise enough.                       
Challenge me the count’s youth to fight with him.
It hangs like flax on a distaff.
Peace!
Stand, ho!
I am a villain.
Bespeak him a fortnight before.—I will have the heart of him if he forfeit, for were he out of Venice I can make what merchandise I will.—Go, go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue.
Hence with your little ones.
How came we ashore?
You kiss by th' book.
Spoke like a tall man that respects thy reputation.
Not sad, my lord.
The noble Brutus Hath told you Caesar was ambitious.
Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.
Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets.
But the great one that goes up the hill, let him draw thee after.
Tomorrow We’ll hear ourselves again.
Shall we hear from you, Catesby, ere we sleep?
Did you send to him, sir?
Prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get again with drinking, pick out mine eyes with a ballad-maker’s pen and hang me up at the door of a brothel house for the sign of blind Cupid.
Where he arrives he moves All hearts against us.
Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
Fear not, Baptista, we will content you.
I will return again into the house and desire some conduct of the lady.
Ha, ha, heard in Genoa.
Are you a married man or a bachelor?
Perchance he is not drown’d.—What think you, sailors?
Hie you to church.
Lysander, whereto tends all this?
For Antony, I have no ears to his request.
And even now, but now, This house, these servants, and this same myself Are yours, my lord’s.
I am bound to hear.
Why, what effects of passion shows she?  
Take from them now The sense of reck'ning ere th' opposèd numbers Pluck their hearts from them.
But, in loving me, you should love the friend of France, for I love France so well that I will not part with a village of it.
Hear me, my lord.
Oh, she is Ten times more gentle than her father’s crabbed, And he’s composed of harshness.
I will piece out the comfort with what addition I can.
Confess and love” Had been the very sum of my confession.
I was forbid it.
Boundless intemperance In nature is a tyranny.
I will watch tonight.
Methinks I see thee now, thou art so low As one dead in the bottom of a tomb.
Would it be better, madam, than I am?
Thou art thy father’s daughter.
Great God of heaven, say amen to all!
Fair daylight?
Is not that strange?
About your years, my lord.
Dat it is not be de fashion pour les ladies of France—I cannot tell wat is  To kiss.
But hast thou yet latched the Athenian’s eyes With the love juice, as I did bid thee do?
 a hungry, narrow-faced villain; a skeleton; a fraud; a raggedy magician and fortune-teller; a needy, hollow-eyed, emaciated wretch; a walking corpse.
Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.
None that I know will be; much that I fear may chance.
Soon at five o'clock, Please you, I’ll meet with you upon the mart And afterward consort you till bedtime.
By your leave, hostess.
Tis passing good.
Suffer love!
You lie.
Put on what weary negligence you please, You and your fellow servants.
Thou speak’st with all thy wit; and yet, i' faith, With wit enough for thee.
And now, good friends, As you are friends, scholars and soldiers, Give me one poor request.
Believe me, King of Shadows, I mistook.
One that old Frederick, your father, loves.
Am I come near ye now?— Welcome, gentlemen!
In happy time here comes the duke himself.
It is backed like a weasel.
Where is the foolish knave I sent before?
He was wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy; let him look to his bond.
Where died she?
Will you think so?
On a trice, so please you, Even in a dream were we divided from them And were brought moping hither.    
But if he had not been in drink, he would have tickled you othergates than he did.
Here’s Lucentio, right son to the right Vincentio, That have by marriage made thy daughter mine While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne.
The ship was under sail.
You must contrary me.
I am sure the duke Will never grant this forfeiture to hold.
What have I kept back?
What news among the merchants?
For there is not a more fearful wildfowl than your lion living.
The hearts of old gave hands, But our new heraldry is hands, not hearts.
And yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it, For thou art framed of the firm truth of valor.
Your will?
No?
Thou must be patient.
I do obey thee till I give thee bail.
Lest it make you choleric and purchase me another dry basting.
Who was ’t came by?
Let us be satisfied!
My lord!
A most extracting frenzy of mine own From my remembrance clearly banished his.
 servants must fulfill their masters' wishes.
Be choked with such another emphasis!
Am not I Christopher Sly, old Sly’s son of Burton Heath, by birth a peddler, by education a cardmaker, by transmutation a bearherd, and now by present profession a tinker?
Sir, being his knave, I will.
Look to your house, your daughter, and your bags!
I bleed, sir, but not killed.
If with myself I hold intelligence Or have acquaintance with mine own desires, If that I do not dream or be not frantic— As I do trust I am not—then, dear uncle, Never so much as in a thought unborn Did I offend your Highness.
These hands do lack nobility that they strike A meaner than myself, since I myself Have given myself the cause.
They were villains, murderers.
Oh, villainous!
Madam, I will.
God save the king.
It pleases your Worship to say so, but we are the poor duke’s officers.
To fly the boar before the boar pursues Were to incense the boar to follow us And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.
And I will purge thy mortal grossness so That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.— Peaseblossom, Cobweb, Moth, and Mustardseed!
The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome Are all too dear for me.
Nay, I think it is scurvy, and begin to find myself fopped in it.
Come, tailor, let us see ’t.
One fairer than my love?
Oh, a thousand thousand times—and then of so gentle a condition!
You, mistress, all this coil is long of you.
Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your years.
Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
A very handsome man.
No, faith, die by attorney.
As plain as I see you now.
The interim’s mine.
But it shall not be so long; this wrestler shall clear all.
Ay, but I know— What dost thou know?
I am hers.
I might do ’t as well i' th' dark.
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
He, sir.
Your honor is most welcome.
Make no delay.
Fled this way, sir, when by no means he could— Pursue him, ho!
Let me still take away the harms I fear, Not fear still to be taken.
What day is this?
The one I’ll stay, the other stayeth me.
Come on.
Is Banquo gone from court?
But this eternal blazon must not be To ears of flesh and blood.
Most noble sir, arise.
I will, my lord.
Think on Lord Hastings.
Well, we were born to die.
If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!
The fault’s your own.
Take it in what sense thou wilt.
Treason!
Even he, sir.
My maid Nerissa and myself meantime Will live as maids and widows.
Excellent well.
You must not think then that I am drunk.
But she perforce withholds the lovèd boy, Crowns him with flowers, and makes him all her joy.
You must have patience, madam.
There is the playhouse now, there must you sit, And thence to France shall we convey you safe And bring you back, charming the narrow seas To give you gentle pass; for, if we may, We’ll not offend one stomach with our play.
Now all is well.
You knew—none so well, none so well as you—of my daughter’s flight.
If much you note him, You shall offend him and extend his passion.
Behold, I have a weapon.
At your choice, sir.
This must crave— An if this be at all—a most strange story.
If thou canst love a fellow of this temper, Kate, whose face is not worth sunburning, that never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there, let thine eye be thy cook.
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
you know me well.
Sister, you’ll go with us?
O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
Ambassadors from Harry King of England Do crave admittance to your Majesty.
Am I in France?
Are those my tents where I perceive the fire?
But, sir, be you ruled by me.
I think of as many matters as he, but I give heaven thanks and make no boast of them.
You shall mark Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave That (doting on his own obsequious bondage) Wears out his time much like his master’s ass For naught but provender, and when he’s old, cashiered.
What shall we do, Enobarbus?
I’ll leave you, lady.
His very opinion in the letter!
Not here in presence.
O brave monster!
I will not till I please.
Go get some water, And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
Pray you now, forget and forgive.
Come away, servant, come.
Grave sir, hail!
All that served Brutus, I will entertain them.
Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
That may be, for you bear a many superfluously, and ’twere more honor some were away.
How now, daughter and cousin?
He finished indeed his mortal act That day that made my sister thirteen years.
And so am I for Rosalind.
But, alas, Caesar must bleed for it.
Is that any thing now?
I pray thee, peace.
But men may construe things after their fashion, Clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
But who comes here?
You shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to do.
It is so.
Tis not in the bond.
A sick man in sadness makes his will, A word ill urged to one that is so ill.
My lord, that would dishonor him!
You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you will give me occasion.
Appear and pertly!— No tongue.
Where’s the Queen?
Methinks thy voice is altered, and thou speak’st In better phrase and matter than thou didst.
Bid me tear the bond.
With any strong or vehement importunity.
I did not see him since.
Then comes the time, who lives to see ’t, That going shall be used with feet.
Out upon it, old carrion!
Blistered be thy tongue For such a wish!
Rub him about the temples.
Do not run away.
But tell me true, are you not mad indeed?
Our army shall In solemn show attend this funeral, And then to Rome.
Know’st thou Fluellen?
Oh, I die for food.
Convey her to my tent.
And when your honors mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith, I do beseech you Even at that time I may be married too.
I have this present evening from my sister Been well informed of them—and with such cautions That if they come to sojourn at my house I’ll not be there.
I pray you, hear her speak.
I can tell you it will serve you to mend your shoes.
Here is my bed.
Make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate.
I think it lacks of twelve.
And what have kings that privates have not too, Save ceremony, save general ceremony?
And, gentle Puck, take this transformèd scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain, That, he awaking when the other do, May all to Athens back again repair And think no more of this night’s accidents But as the fierce vexation of a dream.
That will I, Pompey.
Oh, she knew well Thy love did read by rote, that could not spell.
This is the very false gallop of verses.
Who calls so loud?
The laws are mine, not thine.
Their papers is more lawful.
Was never mother had so dear a loss.
Even so?
I should have chid you for not bringing it, But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl.
Wherefore, bold peasant, Darest thou support a published traitor?
For by the way I’ll sort occasion, As index to the story we late talked of, To part the queen’s proud kindred from the prince.
Cassius from bondage will deliver Cassius.
Get thee hence.
No more of that.
Ghastly looks Are at my service, like enforcèd smiles, And both are ready in their offices, At any time to grace my stratagems.
Here’s too much “out upon thee!” I pray thee, let me in.
She will taste as like this as a crab does to a crab.
Bring me but to the very brim of it, And I’ll repair the misery thou dost bear With something rich about me.
What noise is that?
Set it down.
Yours, if you talk of tales.
Speak no more of him; you’ll be whipped for taxation one of these days.
I will say so.
I’ll cross it though it blast me.—Stay, illusion!
I will not long be troubled with you.
Caesar and Antony have ever won More in their officer than person.
Not a soul But felt a fever of the mad and played Some tricks of desperation.
You shall Have letters from me to some friends that will Sweep your way for you.
The taper burneth in your closet, sir.
Peace, Smulkin.
I know ’t—my sister’s.
A charge we bear i’ th’ war, And as the president of my kingdom will Appear there for a man.
Fortune forbid my outside have not charmed her!
Within our files there are, Of those that served Mark Antony but late, Enough to fetch him in.
What said he?
Away, then!
Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond, Thou but offend’st thy lungs to speak so loud.
Why, she would hang on him As if increase of appetite had grown By what it fed on, and yet, within a month— Let me not think on ’t.
For if such actions may have passage free, Bond-slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be.
One dead, or drunk?
Death makes no conquest of this conqueror, For now he lives in fame, though not in life.
Ay, that he did.
Why, here begins his morning story right; These two Antipholuses, these two so like, And these two Dromios, one in semblance— Besides her urging of her wreck at sea— These are the parents to these children, Which accidentally are met together.
There, take it, Prince.
All that follow their noses are led by their eyes but blind men, and there’s not a nose among twenty but can smell him that’s stinking.
As I am a gentleman, I will live to be thankful to thee for ’t.
Tonight I’ll mourn with Hero.
I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth Than it should do offence to Michael Cassio.
This is thy office.
If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be conjoined, charge you on your souls to utter it.
And Benedick is not the unhopefulest husband that I know.
What, I will be jovial.
Come.
To the tuition of God.
An there be any matter of weight chances, call up me.
O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me, Even daughter, welcome in no less degree.
How now, Malvolio?
What, what, good cheer!
Chop off his head.
If the ill spirit have so fair a house, Good things will strive to dwell with ’t.
I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul.
Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground
I will be correspondent to command And do my spiriting gently.
I will not be long from you.
The Queen shall then have courtesy, so she Will yield us up?
How answer you for yourselves?
All will be well.
Tis from your sister.
I have brought him a present.
What would you?
I prithee now, ungird thy strangeness and tell me what I shall vent to my lady.
My grandam told me he was murdered there.
No, lady.
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven.
Alas, my liege, my wife is dead tonight.
Yea, is the worst well?
A second Daniel!—A Daniel, Jew!
Hark!
 I can’t afford to lose forty ducats.
I say she never did invent this letter.
What, will our mother come?
In those freckles live their savors.
She hath the stones upon her, and the ducats.” Why, all the boys in Venice follow him, Crying, “His stones, his daughter, and his ducats!”
O hell-kite!
Why, headstrong liberty is lashed with woe.
If they will fight with us, bid them come down, Or void the field.
I have perceived a most faint neglect of late, which I have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity than as a very pretense and purpose of unkindness.
You are pictures out of door, bells in your parlors, wild-cats in your kitchens, saints in your injuries, devils being offended, players in your housewifery, and housewives in your beds.
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, Creeps in this petty pace from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time, And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death.
The fool will stay.
I shaked you, sir, and cried.
You know me well, and herein spend but time To wind about my love with circumstance.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail And you are stayed for.
Now, by the faith of my love, I will.
At first the infant, Mewling and puking in the nurse’s arms.
Prepare you, generals.
Cried he?
May I be bold To think these spirits?
Contemning Rome, he has done all this and more In Alexandria.
Safer than trust too far.
Their names are pricked.
Are you not good?
Oh, how he loves Caesar!
When came this to you?
Those that with haste will make a mighty fire Begin it with weak straws.
The wren goes to ’t, and the small gilded fly does lecher in my sight.
Saw you him today?
By my count, I was your mother much upon these years That you are now a maid.
She is never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then, for I have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked herself with laughing.
Shall I go fetch your nightgown?
Methinks she should not use a long one for such a Pyramus.
But come, young waverer, come, go with me, In one respect I’ll thy assistant be, For this alliance may so happy prove To turn your households' rancor to pure love.
So humbly take my leave.
You are welcome, sir, to Cyprus.
Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner.
He’s coming, madam.
You have spoken truer than you purposed.
Nay, like enough, for I stay dinner there.
The Duke does greet you, general, And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance, Even on the instant.
Ay, sir, they be ready.
Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much To think my poverty is treacherous.
They that have done this deed are honorable.
These ducats pawn I for my father here.
Nay, their endeavor keeps in the wonted pace.
List his discourse of war, and you shall hear A fearful battle rendered you in music.
As the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled.
And we will hear it.
If you will live, lament.
Take your place.
The other half Comes to the privy coffer of the state, And the offender’s life lies in the mercy Of the Duke only 'gainst all other voice.
It is my lady.
Therefore, I beseech your Highness pardon me.
In troth, I think thou wouldst not.
Now, my Lord Constable?
Either thou or I, or both, must go with him.
And it is marvel he outdwells his hour, For lovers ever run before the clock.
If thou beest as poor for a subject as he’s for a king, thou'rt poor enough.
Assist, good friends.
I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren.
For certainly thou art so near the gulf Thou needs must be englutted.
Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee, Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Nothing.
Go with me.
Farewell.
Quarrel, sir?
Lucentio, gentle sir.
My life, sir!
This is my treasurer.
His grace speaks cheerfully.
Take thrice thy money.
Cry “holla” to thy tongue, I prithee.
Forgot you!
Ha!
You are the lord of duty.
Error i' the bill, sir, error i' the bill!
Give me your hand, And let me all your fortunes understand.
He made you for a highway to my bed, But I, a maid, die maiden-widowèd.
Here’s no knavery!
Tis meet I should be used so, very meet.
My ever-gentle cousin, welcome hither.
No, madam, he does nothing but smile.
Lorenzo, I commit into your hands The husbandry and manage of my house Until my lord’s return.
She’s dead, deceased, she’s dead.
Hold, my hand.
How now, Shylock?
You peasant swain!
Go, make money.
How goes the world with thee?
My lord, I did, But answer made it none.
O sinful thought!
I could be sad.
It much would please him That of his fortunes you should make a staff To lean upon.
As thou'rt a man, Give me the cup.
My lady is within, sir.
Here comes the Emperor.
You are as well provided of both as any prince in the world.
Hortensio, peace.
Things growing are not ripe until their season.
Soft, here follows prose.
What can he say in this?
To be acknowledged, madam, is o'erpaid.
O young and noble Cato, art thou down?
I must perforce Have shown to thee such a declining day, Or look on thine.
I hear it by the way; but I will send.
Art thou afeard To be the same in thine own act and valor As thou art in desire?
Farewell.
See, and then speak yourselves.
Let’s alone, And do the murder first.
If they do this, As, if God please, they shall, my ransom then Will soon be levied.
If it be not to come, it will be now.
O dear discretion, how his words are suited!
Remain thou still in darkness.
The will!
And though you know my inwardness and love Is very much unto the Prince and Claudio, Yet, by mine honor, I will deal in this As secretly and justly as your soul Should with your body.
Sblood, do you think I am easier to be played on than a pipe?
Why then, alas, Do I put up that womanly defense, To say I have done no harm?
He shall taste of my bottle.
But as well?
Modo he’s called, and Mahu.
Now, by yon marble heaven, In the due reverence of a sacred vow I here engage my words.
What thou wouldst do Is done unto thy hand.
In verity you did.—My bones bear witness, That since have felt the vigour of his rage.
Speak, man.
Know’st thou not That I have fined these bones of mine for ransom?
He shall tell them so.
I drew to part them.
Thou'rt a scholar.
A trade, sir, that I hope I may use with a safe conscience, which is, indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles.
In this last tempest.
Throw some of them at me.
He thinks, being twenty times of better fortune, He is twenty men to one.
You may have very fit occasion for ’t.
Nay, then you lie.
Nor shalt not till necessity be served.
Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius, Publicola, and Caelius, are for sea; But we keep whole by land.
I would have none but knaves follow it since a fool gives it.
Why, as I told thee, ’tis a custom with him, I' th' afternoon to sleep.
Nothing could have subdued nature To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.
He bears him like a portly gentleman, And, to say truth, Verona brags of him To be a virtuous and well-governed youth.
Then, window, let day in and let life out.
First, of my word!
Done.
Wilt thou change fathers?
O dolt!
No, no, no, no!
Choose your revenge yourself.
Hark, they roar.
Not so hot.
Know’st thou his mind?
But to my mind, though I am native here And to the manner born, it is a custom More honored in the breach than the observance.
O good old man, how well in thee appears The constant service of the antique world, When service sweat for duty, not for meed.
What, dead, my dove?
Go, call him hither, boy   No more shall be the neighbor to my counsels Hath he so long held out with me, untired, And stops he now for breath?
For whose sake did I that ill deed?
But doth he know that I am in this forest and in man’s apparel?
I guess at it.
The king’s son have I landed by himself, Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs In an odd angle of the isle, and sitting, His arms in this sad knot.
Sure he hath killed his wife.
But this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband.
It hath been The untimely emptying of the happy throne And fall of many kings.
Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move And with her breath she did perfume the air.
For with throwing thus my head,  Dogs leap the hatch, and all are fled.
Are they “informed” of this?
Therefore depart and leave him here with me.
Tis for the dead, not for the quick.
Your grandfather of famous memory, an’t please your Majesty, and your great-uncle Edward the Plack Prince of Wales, as I have read in the chronicles, fought a most prave pattle here in France.
Richard except, those whom we fight against Had rather have us win than him they follow.
Ay, on the front.
But it is true, without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the honest Antonio—oh, that I had a title good enough to keep his name company!—  Come, the full stop.
I never may believe These antique fables nor these fairy toys.
I dare damnation.
Do but look up.
Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.
Put up thy sword, Or manage it to part these men with me.
Two things are to be done
Why, horns, which such as you are fain to be beholding to your wives for.
Hath Romeo slain himself?
Under Captain Gower, my liege.
That’s not so good.
But he that will believe all that they say shall never be saved by half that they do.
Look in the calendar and bring me word.
Speak thou now.
Haply the seas and countries different With variable objects shall expel This something-settled matter in his heart, Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus From fashion of himself.
Armed, say you?
Is it not past two o'clock?
I shall be much bound to you for ’t.
If you do fight in safeguard of your wives, Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors.
She’ll close and be herself whilst our poor malice Remains in danger of her former tooth.
Treachery!
Thou villain, what sayest thou?
Give me thy hand.
Saw’st thou him enter at the abbey here?
Here he comes.
For God’s sake, hold your hands.
By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it, but that she loves him with an enraged affection, it is past the infinite of thought.
You have known what you should not.
I' faith, he’ll have a lusty widow now That shall be wooed and wedded in a day.
What is this That rises like the issue of a king, And wears upon his baby-brow the round And top of sovereignty?
Oh, rare for Antony!
Farewell, farewell.
The best I can, my lord.
I am half afeard Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee, Thou spend’st such high-day wit in praising him.— Come, come, Nerissa, for I long to see Quick Cupid’s post that comes so mannerly.
Holy Franciscan Friar!
I know thou wilt say “ay,” And I will take thy word.
I was the more deceived.
God be at your table.
The wood of Birnam.
That is the voice, Or I am much deceived, of Portia.
I will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him.
Why sweat they under burdens?
Did Michael Cassio, when you wooed my lady, Know of your love?
I’ll call thee “Hamlet,” “King,” “Father,” “royal Dane.” O, answer me!
Upon them!
Not that we love words better, as you do.
If it will not, what remedy?
The cunning of her passion Invites me in this churlish messenger.
Away, slight man!
Quoth my master.
Forty thousand brothers Could not with all their quantity of love Make up my sum.
Most reverend signior, do you know my voice?
Are we all ready?
As manhood shall compound.
How is it with her?
I am not well.
Look, sir, here comes the lady toward my cell.
He would have deserved it.
I dare not drink yet, madam.
Set we our squadrons on yond side o’ th’ hill, In eye of Caesar’s battle, from which place We may the number of the ships behold And so proceed accordingly.
Oh, fie, fie, fie!
Now go we in content To liberty, and not to banishment.
So please you— What says the fellow there?
I am dumb.
Makest thou this shame thy pastime?
Tush, Gremio.
Marry, I remember it well.
Then say at once what is it thou requests.
No more light answers.
So, it will make us mad.
With good acceptance of his Majesty— Save that there was not time enough to hear, As I perceived his Grace would fain have done, The severals and unhidden passages Of his true titles to some certain dukedoms, And generally to the crown and seat of France, Derived from Edward, his great-grandfather.
Who can come in and say that I mean her, When such a one as she such is her neighbor?
O time, thou must untangle this, not I.
Well, what was yours?
I know that, but I would have thee hence and here again.
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours, Makes the night morning, and the noontide night.
O Lord, I could have stayed here all the night To hear good counsel.
You have told me she hath received them and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden respect and acquaintance, but I find none.
The French ambassador upon that instant Craved audience.
I’ll apprehend him.
Orlando, my liege, the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.
Know’st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile?
Fie, thou dishonest Satan!
Captain Macmorris, I think, look you, under your correction, there is not many of your nation—  Of my nation?
So the gods preserve thee!
What else?
As with the meat, some undeservèd fault I’ll find about the making of the bed, And here I’ll fling the pillow, there the bolster, This way the coverlet, another way the sheets.
I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a good husband.
Go softly on.
But I will wed thee in another key, With pomp, with triumph, and with reveling.
Thou shalt not die.
Take hence this jack and whip him.
How now, what’s the matter?
The king would speak with Cornwall.
I think the world’s asleep.
If you knew my business, You would entreat me rather go than stay.
And then he drew a dial from his poke And, looking on it with lackluster eye, Says very wisely, “It is ten o'clock.
when ’twas a little prating thing.—Oh, there is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain lay knife aboard, but she, good soul, had as lief see a toad, a very toad, as see him.
Sing it.
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us To let his madness range.
Here it is, I think.
You should ask me what time o' day.
I pray you, keep it in.
Royal wench!
Passion, I see, is catching, for mine eyes, Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine, Began to water.
A joint stool.
He cannot like her long.
That’s all one.
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun Should in the farthest east begin to draw The shady curtains from Aurora’s bed, Away from light steals home my heavy son,
I would he had boarded me.
If our sport had gone forward, we had all been made men.
Is he pursued?
Shut that, and ’twill out at the keyhole.
Your reason?
Great business must be wrought ere noon.
The rest will comfort, for thy counsel’s sound.
But stay awhile.
Do you not hear it ring?
See not your bride in these unreverent robes.
And that’s but unwholesome food, they say.
Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself Are much condemned to have an itching palm, To sell and mart your offices for gold To undeservers.
And now, I pray you, sir— For still ’tis beating in my mind—your reason For raising this sea storm?
And yet no further than a wanton’s bird, That lets it hop a little from his hand Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves, And with a silken thread plucks it back again, So loving-jealous of his liberty.
Tongue, not a word.
Let us leave him.
Masters, play here, I will content your pains.
Parting is such sweet sorrow That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
What is thy name?
I do,  This touches me in reputation.
Madam, I will.
Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards We may digest our complots in some form.
Heart, once be stronger than thy continent.
Come let’s in all.
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
Ay, I praise God, and I have merited some love at his hands.
Write loyal cantons of contemned love And sing them loud even in the dead of night.
Oh, a cherubim Thou wast that did preserve me.
I think I can discover him, if you please To get good guard and go along with me.
The odds is gone, And there is nothing left remarkable Beneath the visiting moon.
When this advice is free I give and honest, Probal to thinking and indeed the course To win the Moor again?
Where is she?
Look, where thy love comes.
Didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter?
The Dauphin, whom of succors we entreated, Returns us that his powers are yet not ready To raise so great a siege.
Ay, sweet Rosalind.
The point envenomed too!—Then, venom, to thy work.
They have said their prayers, and they stay for death.
You taught me language, and my profit on ’t Is I know how to curse.
Thou an Egyptian puppet shalt be shown In Rome, as well as I.
I know not by what power I am made bold Nor how it may concern my modesty In such a presence here to plead my thoughts, But I beseech your grace that I may know The worst that may befall me in this case, If I refuse to wed Demetrius.
Follow, I pray you.
Why, so I did, but looked for no reply.
But were the day come, I should wish it dark, That I were couching with the doctor’s clerk.
Therefore the moon, the governess of floods, Pale in her anger, washes all the air, That rheumatic diseases do abound.
Draw, you rascal!
We are friends.
I urge this childhood proof Because what follows is pure innocence.
But where is Kate?
I see a voice.
But, let me see, by ten We shall have each a hundred Englishmen.
I will tell you.
Sir, shall I to this lady?
Orlando.
Cicero is dead, And by that order of proscription.
Well, that is the dowry of his wife; ’tis none of his own getting.
Let but the commons hear this testament— Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read— And they would go and kiss dead Caesar’s wounds And dip their napkins in his sacred blood, Yea, beg a hair of him for memory, And, dying, mention it within their wills, Bequeathing it as a rich legacy Unto their issue.
Still live they, and forever let them last.
 clear his conscience of any stain.
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part.
We Have used to conquer standing on the earth And fighting foot to foot.
I do assure thee, father, so it is.
All’s but naught.
Alas, what cry is that?
Lucentio!
Did your letters pierce the queen to any demonstration of grief?
I saw him not.
My lord.
Amen.
Who is so gross That cannot see this palpable device?
My lord, upon the platform where we watch.
And Caesar shall go forth.
Run, master, run.
Please it your grace, on to the state affairs.
How is ’t, my noble lord?
Her father loved me, oft invited me, Still questioned me the story of my life From year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes, That I have passed.
Everything is well.
Despised, distressèd, hated, martyred, killed!
Thou think’st ’tis much that this contentious storm Invades us to the skin.
When shall we three meet again?
How I dote on thee!
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
Go release them, Ariel.
O, farewell, honest soldier.
Like aqua vitae with a midwife.
And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?
Caesar’s sister is called Octavia.
Has here writ a letter to you.
I’ll torture him.
If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not As to thy friends, for when did friendship take A breed for barren metal of his friend?
The Queen, my lord, the Queen.
Who is ’t that cried?
Be a child o’ th’ time.
Do not believe That, from the sense of all civility, I thus would play and trifle with your reverence.
The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
Would you buy her, that you enquire after her?
I would have blowed up the town, so Chrish save me, la, in an hour.
This is she—    Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace!
Nay, lay thee down and roar, For thou hast killed the sweetest innocent That e'er did lift up eye.
Ay, madam.
Where did you die?
Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.
Tis pity of him.
Now, by my mother’s son, and that’s myself, It shall be moon, or star, or what I list, Or e'er I journey to your father’s house.
Oh, wonder!
He hath given his empire Up to a whore; who now are levying The kings o’ th’ earth for war.
I beseech your pardon.
Go off, I discard you.
News, my good lord, from Rome.
You must needs yield your reason, Sir Andrew.
Prithee, keep up thy quillets.
Speakest thou from thy heart?
Tis as arrant a piece of knavery, mark you now, as can be offert, in your conscience now, is it not?
Be this the whetstone of your sword.
Be certain, nothing truer.
That’s the end.
Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
I have been told so of many.
This diamond he greets your wife withal, By the name of most kind hostess, and shut up In measureless content.
Thou shalt be pinched As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging Than bees that made 'em.
 the moment their beauty is in full bloom, it’s about to decay.
Alack, our terrene moon is now eclipsed, And it portends alone the fall of Antony.
You may as well do anything most hard, As seek to soften that—than which what’s harder?— His Jewish heart.
Cleopatra, Not what you have reserved nor what acknowledged Put we i’ th’ roll of conquest.
Transform me, then, and to your power I’ll yield.
Caesar, thy thoughts Touch their effects in this.
I cannot believe that in her.
All for our vantage.
Who’s that which rings the bell?—Diablo, ho!
I should first tell thee how the Prince, Claudio and my master, planted and placed and possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter.
Soft!
Oh, my daughter!
Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.
Adieu.
I do not find that thou deal’st justly with me.
I have made strong proof of my constancy, Giving myself a voluntary wound Here in the thigh.
All’s cheerless, dark, and deadly.
And you too, gentle Hero?
Nay, you were a fragment Of Gneius Pompey’s, besides what hotter hours, Unregistered in vulgar fame, you have Luxuriously picked out.
Whip him.
I must attend on Caesar.
Yea, leave that labor to great Hercules, And let it be more than Alcides' twelve.
Thy sister’s sister.
What you would work me to, I have some aim.
Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Brittany, Of Brabant and of Orléans, shall make forth, And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch, To line and new-repair our towns of war With men of courage and with means defendant.
I shall answer for her.
Was ’t you he rescued?
My lord, my lord, I’ll prove it on his body if he dare, Despite his nice fence and his active practice, His May of youth and bloom of lustihood.
Cleopatra— Think you there was or might be such a man As this I dreamt of?
I’ll tell thee more of this another time.
I’ll bring you thither, my lord, if you’ll vouchsafe me.
Yare, yare, good Iras, quick.
The glowworm shows the matin to be near, And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
For lead?
Slid, I’ll after him again and beat him.
Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn, To follow me and praise my eyes and face?
Most savage and unnatural!
There’s not, I think, a subject That sits in heart-grief and uneasiness Under the sweet shade of your government.
Oh, you are men of stones.
Vouchsafe to wear this ring.
Thy lover,      Artemidorus” Here will I stand till Caesar pass along, And as a suitor will I give him this.
Say that some lady, as perhaps there is, Hath for your love a great a pang of heart As you have for Olivia.
They have all stomachs.
To Ireland, I.
And at her late being here She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks To noble Edmund.
Let her awhile be secretly kept in And publish it that she is dead indeed.
I had else been perfect, Whole as the marble, founded as the rock, As broad and general as the casing air.
Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
O sir, pardon me!
By sea, what else?
He sought my life, But lately, very late.
I have done the deed.
A tailor made thee.
Upon the stroke of four.
I would eat his heart in the marketplace.
Fellow Grumio!
He is very near by this.
If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you in that.
I’ll tell you who time ambles withal, who time trots withal, who time gallops withal, and who he stands still withal.
Come, away.
I will be mild and gentle in my words.
That they were, I wish Myself were mudded in that oozy bed Where my son lies.—When did you lose your daughter?
We look for you tomorrow.
Away before me to sweet beds of flowers.
As they pass by, pluck Casca by the sleeve, And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you What hath proceeded worthy note today.
What’s the news with thee?
Woe that too late repents!—   Is it your will?
Hast thou forgot her?
Sorry I am my noble cousin should Suspect me that I mean no good to him.
First, rehearse your song by rote, To each word a warbling note.
If he come not, then the play is marred.
Now does my project gather to a head.
Tis called the evil.
O eastern star!
Maria once told me she did affect me, and I have heard herself come thus near, that, should she fancy, it should be one of my complexion.
These couchings and these lowly courtesies Might fire the blood of ordinary men And turn preordinance and first decree Into the law of children.
Peace, you mumbling fool!
Good night, good doctor.
Instance, briefly.
Their ships are yare, yours, heavy.
Excellent.
Fare you well.
Will you stay awhile?
Wear both of them, for both of them are thine.
O dear son Edgar, The food of thy abusèd father’s wrath, Might I but live to see thee in my touch, I’d say I had eyes again!
Within a month, Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears Had left the flushing in her gallèd eyes, She married.
But small to greater matters must give way.
Sir Walter Herbert, a renownèd soldier; Sir Gilbert Talbot, Sir William Stanley, Oxford, redoubted Pembroke, Sir James Blunt, And Rice ap Thomas, with a valiant crew, And many other of great name and worth; And towards London they do bend their power, If by the way they be not fought withal.
Thrice within this hour I saw him down, thrice up again and fighting.
What is this?
He, for his father’s sake, so loves the prince That he will not be won to aught against him.
The text is foolish.
Would he have stolen away From sleeping Hermia?
They are pitiful.
Ay, marry, must you.
Come, sir, to dinner.—Dromio, keep the gate.
Else the Puck a liar call.
Where America, the Indies?
If you be well pleased with this And hold your fortune for your bliss, Turn you where your lady is And claim her with a loving kiss.”
Nay, forward, old man.
Whether he was combined With those of Norway, or did line the rebel With hidden help and vantage, or that with both He labored in his country’s wrack, I know not; But treasons capital, confessed and proved, Have overthrown him.
Here do I choose, and thrive I as I may!
Come hither, neighbor Seacole.
There were none principal.
But yet I’ll go in hate to feed upon The prodigal Christian.—Jessica, my girl, Look to my house.
Nor I.
But one word more— He will not be commanded.
Upon the right hand I.
What conquest brings he home?
No, no, the bell.
I prithee, do so.
Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
I am in my condition A prince, Miranda—I do think, a king; I would, not so!—and would no more endure This wooden slavery than to suffer The flesh-fly blow my mouth.
So our leader’s led, And we are women’s men.
I will do so.
I pray thee, chide not.
What is your will, sir, that you send for me?
Good Margaret, run thee to the parlor.
And find I am alone felicitate In your dear highness' love.
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play, Alone, in company, still my care hath been To have her matched.
I would fain learn to lie.
Take up the body.
But, good Laertes, Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
News from Verona!—How now, Balthasar?
I’ll put a girdle round about the Earth In forty minutes.
Why, he shall never wake until the great Judgment Day.
Come, there is sauce for it.
Tell him his fears are shallow, without instance.
I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible That love should of a sudden take such hold?
What’s he that speaks for Edmund, Earl of Gloucester?
Why then, God forgive me.
Saint Davy’s day is past.
Wine loved I deeply, dice dearly, and in woman outparamoured the Turk.
Nay, let me alone for swearing.
In wisdom I should ask thy name.
What thou wouldst highly, That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false, And yet wouldst wrongly win.
This gentleman will out-talk us all.
The main descry Stands in the hourly thought.
Use lenity, sweet chuck.
The duke be here tonight?
How came you to this?
doth sway my life.” Nay, but first, let me see, let me see, let me see.
I do fear, the people Choose Caesar for their king.
Did he not rather Discredit my authority with yours, And make the wars alike against my stomach, Having alike your cause?
Against my will, I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.
Not I.
Where is she now?—What, will these hands ne'er be clean?—No more o' that, my lord, no more o' that.
Come, sir, will you aboard?
Keep promise, love.
See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
I am sorry to hear this.
Phoebe did write it.
Younger than you Here in Verona, ladies of esteem Are made already mothers.
And lawfully by this the Jew may claim A pound of flesh to be by him cut off Nearest the merchant’s heart.—Be merciful.
Disorder, that hath spoiled us, friend us now.
Hush and be mute, Or else our spell is marred.
O, thou didst prophesy the time would come That I should wish for thee to help me curse That bottled spider, that foul bunch-backed toad!
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with me.
But no more deep will I endart mine eye Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
Let thy blood and spirit embrace them.
He’s a good fellow, I can tell you that.
Fulvia thy wife is dead.
Here he comes.
Then I, and you, and all of us fell down, Whilst bloody treason flourished over us.
He is, indeed, sir, the most skillful, bloody, and fatal opposite that you could possibly have found in any part of Illyria.
Thou old unhappy traitor, Briefly thyself remember.
It now draws toward night.
Here, sir!
Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate A contract of true love.
She creeps.
Nay, but he prated And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms Against your honor That, with the little godliness I have, I did full hard forbear him.
Hence, and avoid my sight!— So be my grave my peace as here I give Her father’s heart from her.—Call France.
It then draws near the season Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Oh, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound, That breathes upon a bank of violets, Stealing and giving odor.
Five hundred poor I have in yearly pay, Who twice a day their withered hands hold up Toward heaven to pardon blood.
We’ll lead you thither.
No, as I am a Christian.
Very good.
If we are marked to die, we are enough To do our country loss; and if to live, The fewer men, the greater share of honor.
Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away.
You can fool no more money out of me at this throw.
Fine apparition!
I did hear The galloping of horse.
 I love you, Kate.
Each heart in Rome does love and pity you.
My dukedom to a beggarly denier, I do mistake my person all this while!
Take heed of Cassius.
Speak.
Ay, ’twas he that told me on her first.
And having brought our treasure where we will, Then take we down his load and turn him off, Like to the empty ass, to shake his ears And graze in commons.
Our Italy Shines o’er with civil swords.
Wilt come?
Marry, thou dost wrong me, thou dissembler, thou.
But tell not me.
The players cannot keep counsel.
Lady, come from that nest Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep.
He is a dreamer.
Why, this is excellent.
He has heard that word of some great man and now applies it to a fool.
That Herod’s head I’ll have!
Sweet, sweet, sweet Nurse, tell me, what says my love?
What sayst thou to him?
Now my charms are all o'erthrown, And what strength I have’s mine own, Which is most faint.
He’s married, madam.
He hath been out nine years, and away he shall again.
Get you to bed, faith.
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, It seems to me most strange that men should fear, Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come.
Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet, Whither away, or where is thy abode?
Now heaven walks on earth.
This is the man, this is Antonio, To whom I am so infinitely bound.
Come, we burn daylight, ho!
Pale or red?
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
Go, Lovell, with all speed to Doctor Shaw.
I cry you mercy.
Made you my guardians, my depositaries, But kept a reservation to be followed With such a number.
I will plague them all, Even to roaring.
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look’st pale.
And I, delivering you, am satisfied, And therein do account myself well paid.
You!
If this were played upon a stage now, I could condemn it as an improbable fiction.
With bills on their necks
I’ll no more of you.
Were it good, think you?
Yea,” quoth my husband, “Fall’st upon thy face?
I’ll tell you in your ear.
Where is thy power, then, to beat him back?
But adieu.
Do not say so, Lysander.
Fetch forth the stocks!
I am quickly ill, and well, So Antony loves.
I will set down what comes from her, to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
Thou art the ruins of the noblest man That ever livèd in the tide of times.
But his flawed heart— Alack, too weak the conflict to support— 'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief, Burst smilingly.
First, madam, he is well.
From the Count Orsino, is it?
And here my mistress.
Go, leave me.
I may say “thrusting” it, For piercing steel and darts envenomèd Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus As tidings of this sight.
In brief, for so the season bids us be, Prepare thy battle early in the morning, And put thy fortune to the arbitrament Of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war.
O Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!
I think withal There would be hands uplifted in my right; And here from gracious England have I offer Of goodly thousands.
Why, so.
Those that Macbeth hath slain.
Yes, ’tis Emilia.— 'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio’s death, The noise was high.
Here’s goodly gear.
Give me thy hand.
Seest thou here, This is the mouth o' th' cell.
The breaking of so great a thing should make A greater crack.
Will you go hear this news, Signior?
They stay upon your patience.
We’ll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors.
Feed and sleep.
I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
He was but a fool that brought My answer back.
I’ll none now.
Young man, have you challenged Charles the wrestler?
Well, Susan is with God.
Light, gentlemen, I’ll bind it with my shirt.
You’re sad, Signior Balthasar.
Within this half hour will he be asleep.
Pray heavens he be, For I have served him, and the man commands Like a full soldier.
The house will be the quieter.
That would hang us, every mother’s son.
Bids the winds blow the earth into the sea Or swell the curlèd water 'bove the main, That things might change or cease.
The dearest ring in Venice will I give you, And find it out by proclamation.
Tis death to me to be at enmity; I hate it, and desire all good men’s love.
Now is the winter of our discontent Made glorious summer by this son of York, And all the clouds that loured upon our house In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
Ophelia, walk you here.
Thou art the best o' th' cutthroats
What is it, my good friends?
And for three months.
A piece of him.
I am sure he had more hair of his tail than I have of my face when I last saw him.
Thus with a kiss I die.
Speed him hence.
Ourself will mingle with society And play the humble host.
He hath refused it in the open court.
Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread?
You have said, sir.
Ay, Desdemona.
And in good time here comes the sweating lord.
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
It is a paltry cap, A custard-coffin, a bauble, a silken pie.
If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
Did you confer with him?
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to ’t.
All strange and terrible events are welcome, But comforts we despise.
I told him you were sick.
Here comes the Prince and Claudio.
Why, that the Moor first gave to Desdemona, That which so often you did bid me steal.
Madam, here comes my lord.
Othello?
What woman, then?
But thy vile race, Though thou didst learn, had that in ’t which good natures Could not abide to be with.
Dead art thou!
I dare assure thee that no enemy Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus.
Hear the shrill whistle, which doth order give To sounds confused.
Let it go.
Madam, you have done me wrong, Notorious wrong.
Oh, was she so?
Come, Vaughan.
Dead.
What means this jest?
A good note, that keeps you from the blow of the law.
Fare you well.
 if your royal father does not sweeten the bitter insult you sent my king and grant all our demands, Henry’s artillery will give you so resounding an answer that the very caves and vaulted cathedrals of France shall echo your mocking of him back in your face.
Here comes the little villain.
Never so rich a gem Was set in worse than gold.
There is time enough.
But wherefore could not I pronounce “Amen”?
Sir, he’s rash and very sudden in choler, and haply may strike at you.
Good morrow, Father.
 until I truly fall in love, a woman will never make me act like such a fool.
There’s the cunning of it.
I would it might be hangers till then.
I never saw you in my life till now.
Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
Then stand with us.
A wandering knight?
Ha!
Therefore is it most expedient for the wise, if Don Worm, his conscience, find no impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet of his own virtues, as I am to myself.
All the world’s a stage, And all the men and women merely players.
Belike you slew great number of his people?
Then, at my farm I have a hundred milch-kine to the pail, Six score fat oxen standing in my stalls, And all things answerable to this portion.
Strangle her in her bed, even the bed she hath contaminated.
Phoebe, with all my heart.
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
I thought all for the best.
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
It is to be all made of fantasy, All made of passion and all made of wishes, All adoration, duty, and observance, All humbleness, all patience and impatience, All purity, all trial, all observance, And so am I for Phoebe.
Get you therefore hence, Poor miserable wretches, to your death, The taste whereof God of His mercy give You patience to endure, and true repentance Of all your dear offences.—Bear them hence.
I am glad thy father’s dead, Thy match was mortal to him, and pure grief Shore his old thread in twain.
I charge thee, speak!
Oh, ay.
But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees And leave them honeyless.
Tell him I have moved my lord on his behalf, and hope all will be well.
It is some meteor that the sun exhales To be to thee this night a torchbearer, And light thee on thy way to Mantua.
You have my consent.
Oh, that record is lively in my soul!
Nay, good goose, bite not.
For we will fetters put upon this fear, Which now goes too free-footed.
There is ten thousand— Geese, villain?
So, so, so.
Bid them all fly, For when I am revenged upon my charm, I have done all.
How comes it?
Ely with Richmond troubles me more near Than Buckingham and his rash-levied strength.
Come they of noble family?
So shall he waste his means, weary his soldiers, Doing himself offense, whilst we, lying still, Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness.
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
I am an ass; else it could never be But I should know her as well as she knows me.
I will not say so, for fear I should be faced out of my way.
Whereat grieved— That so his sickness, age, and impotence Was falsely borne in hand—sends out arrests On Fortinbras, which he, in brief, obeys, Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine Makes vow before his uncle never more To give th' assay of arms against your majesty.
Do not lie so near.
Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
And speak ’t again, my lord.
Let them begin.
Sir, here’s the door.
So the life that died with shame Lives in death with glorious fame.
Ill will never said well.
Tis but a man gone.
In private?
My back a' t' other side.
Peace!
She for an Edward weeps, and so do I; I for a Clarence weep; so doth not she.
I will here be with thee presently, and if I bring thee not something to eat, I will give thee leave to die.
Not honestly, my lord, but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me.
Who bids thee call?
Happy is your Grace, That can translate the stubbornness of fortune Into so quiet and so sweet a style.
Nothing will come of nothing.
O, I die, Horatio.
Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated, The rest I’d give to be to you translated.
A bridegroom, say you?
Oh, ’tis a gallant king!
Now, forward with your tale.—Prithee, stand farther off.
Adieu.
Stanley, he is your wife’s son.
 long live Richard, England’s worthy king!
And so do I too, lieutenant.
Where I have learned me to repent the sin Of disobedient opposition To you and your behests, and am enjoined By holy Lawrence to fall prostrate here To beg your pardon.
The gods make this a happy day to Antony!
Ourselves we do not owe.
Their defeat Does by their own insinuation grow.
Good sentences, and well pronounced.
How answer you that?
A good lenten answer.
Come down, behold no more.
Find thou the means, and I’ll find such a man.
Perhaps I will return immediately.
Where is he, in his bed?
Let us hear, sweet Bottom.
Thou art on thy deathbed.
Is ’t true, is ’t true?
Big Mars seems bankrupt in their beggared host And faintly through a rusty beaver peeps.
There comes an old man and his three sons— I could match this beginning with an old tale.
How now, Grumio?
How?
Go make thee ready; Our letters are prepared.
That it would please you leave these sad designs To him that hath more cause to be a mourner, And presently repair to Crosby House, Where, after I have solemnly interred At Chertsey monast'ry this noble king And wet his grave with my repentant tears, I will with all expedient duty see you.
Yea, but you must not make the full show of this till you may do it without controlment.
Good morrow, noble sir.
Well, tell me now what lady is the same To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage, That you today promised to tell me of?
Show me the place.
Well, you temporize with the hours.
So please you, for I never heard it yet, Yet heard too much of Phoebe’s cruelty.
I am not gamesome.
You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it.
Oh, yes, I heard them all, and more too, for some of them had in them more feet than the verses would bear.
Be patient.
In food, in sport, and life-preserving rest To be disturbed, would mad or man or beast.
Stand!
I would have her learn, my fair cousin, how perfectly I love her, and that is good English.
God give me joy to wear it, for my heart is exceeding heavy.
How hast thou offended?
It is the cry of women, my good lord.
Our will is Antony be took alive.
Come forth, I say!
God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the better increasing your folly!
What have you done?
I thank your lordship.
Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame.
Woo’t fast?
Here.
I never looked for better at his hands After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.
In faith, hath not the world one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion?
To no more Will I give place or notice.
Yes, one, and in this manner.
Upon mine honor, Myself, my brother, and this grievèd count Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain, Confessed the vile encounters they have had A thousand times in secret.
The town is beseeched, and the trumpet call us to the breach, and we talk and, be Chrish, do nothing, ’tis shame for us all.
If you would take the pains but to examine the wars of Pompey the Great, you shall find, I warrant you, that there is no tiddle toddle nor pibble babble in Pompey’s camp.
Is yonder the man?
Do you not know me, Father?
No, his mouth is stopped.
And earthly power doth then show likest God’s When mercy seasons justice.
Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover’s grace.
I can tell thee where that saying was born, of “I fear no colors.”  Where, good Mistress Mary?
Mistress, what cheer?
Art thou so hasty?
Do not fret yourself too much in the action, monsieur.
My stomach is not constant.
Let the garden door be shut, and leave me to my hearing.
Fall to.
Nay, that’s certain.
Raise up the Montagues.
And I am your Rosalind.
No, I warrant your Grace you shall not entreat him to a second, that have so mightily persuaded him from a first.
I prithee, hear me speak.
Let me not, Since I have my dukedom got And pardoned the deceiver, dwell In this bare island by your spell, But release me from my bands With the help of your good hands.
There’s my cap.
Myself the man i' th' moon do seem to be— This is the greatest error of all the rest.
Either be patient and entreat me fair, Or with the clamorous report of war Thus will I drown your exclamations.
Haply I see a friend will save my life And pay the sum that may deliver me.
If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body.
I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly.
The forfeit, sovereign, of my servant’s life, Who slew today a riotous gentleman Lately attendant on the duke of Norfolk.
Why, how now, Kate!
Adieu, adieu, adieu.
What art thou, fellow?
Thou know’st not me.
Well, come, my Kate.
If we walk not in the trodden paths our very petticoats will catch them.
I have professed me thy friend, and I confess me knit to thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness.
He begins at curfew and walks till the first cock.
I wonder at it.
And how was that ta'en up?
Good even to my ghostly confessor.
Bring it to that, The gold I give thee will I melt and pour Down thy ill-uttering throat.
I will speak to this fellow.—Whose grave’s this, sirrah?
Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other.
Say not so, Agrippa.
I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to tear a cat in to make all split.
Let me have open means to come to them, And soon I’ll rid you from the fear of them.
Winter garments must be lined, So must slender Rosalind.
No more words.
By no means” what?
Sitting on a bank, Weeping again the king my father’s wrack, This music crept by me upon the waters, Allaying both their fury and my passion With its sweet air.
Even so.—Cover their faces.
Know I these men that come along with you?
I will be heard.
Amen, if you love her, for the lady is very well worthy.
Thou art too like the spirit of Banquo.
Whilst he stood up and spoke, He was my master, and I wore my life To spend upon his haters.
Caesar.
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew, my master.
Tis sweating labor To bear such idleness so near the heart As Cleopatra this.
But that you do not love me.
Have you the chain about you?
Name what part I am for and proceed.
I rest much bounden to you.
My creditors grow cruel.
Why, art thou mad, old fellow?
My villainy?
Why, friends, you go to do you know not what.
Hear a little further And then I’ll bring thee to the present business Which now ’s upon ’s, without the which this story Were most impertinent.
Must I bite?
Why did you so cry out, sirs, in your sleep?
By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.
Nay, guiltiness Will speak, though tongues were out of use.
Good friend,” quoth he, “Say the firm Roman to great Egypt sends This treasure of an oyster, at whose foot, To mend the petty present, I will piece Her opulent throne with kingdoms.
I noted her not, but I looked on her.
Who talks within there?
Twas I indeed thou promised’st to strike, And thou hast given me most bitter terms.
But, as you say, sir, let your bounty take a nap, I will awake it anon.
Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius, Had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
A very forward March-chick!
Shall they see us?
Let it fall rather, though the fork invade The region of my heart.
You tallow face!
His speech was like a tangled chain.
If she do bid me pack, I’ll give her thanks, As though she bid me stay by her a week.
I have no words.
We’ll set thee to school to an ant to teach thee there’s no laboring i' th' winter.
How now, Cassio!
If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, I would make thee care for me.
For what offence?
Worse and worse!
It is my fashion, when I see a crab.
Tis late.
But, on
You are passing welcome, And so I pray you all to think yourselves.
Why, she hath a face of her own.
O you gods!
One aloof stand sentinel.
By heavens, the duke shall know how slack you have been.
Farewell, farewell.
I would your grace would constrain me to tell.
God will revenge it.
And when I shall die, Take him and cut him out in little stars, And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night And pay no worship to the garish sun.
Be gone!
I did not think to draw my sword ’gainst Pompey, For he hath laid strange courtesies and great Of late upon me.
Why, she was dead ere thou wast born.
And she can weep, sir, weep.
Let each man render me his bloody hand.
There sleeps Titania sometime of the night, Lulled in these flowers with dances and delight.
He’s in his fit now and does not talk after the wisest.
