I don’t even know how much I’m spending to find them.
You’re awfully eager to fight.
Find the people whose names are on this list?
He only married out of political necessity.
ate at home, but the jeweler says he didn’t.
But who cares.
Stand away from the hearse.
Your preparation for war sounds like something.    
I wish the lightning had burned up all those logs that you’ve been ordered to stack!
So now Sweno, the Norwegian king, wants a treaty.
If any of my relatives find you here they’ll kill you because of who you are.
What did you say?
I desperately needed God’s blessing, but the word “Amen” stuck in my throat.
This is the roof under which Lorenzo said to meet him.
Whew!
Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead.
They made him drink the leftover wine usually given to the poor.
Would you like to hear some music, my sweet love?
Your husband knew about everything.
Why are you knocking so hard?
What’s the matter?
Lock the door.
Run to the Capulets.
If your master wants a queen to beg from him, you should tell him that a queen will beg for no less than a kingdom.
I will see them.
And what’s the point, sir?
Yes, and Wall too.
Is this the Prince?
Disgusting!
And they thought Margaret was Hero?
Is it lunchtime?
The more I try to hide what I’m feeling, the bigger it gets.
According to what I heard, they had no travel plans as of last night.
We’re probably a very valuable catch for these guys.
To bed, to bed!
Captain Macmorris, I beg your pardon, but would you grant me a discussion or two with you, see, partly touching on or concerning the practice of war, the Roman wars, for the sake of argument, see, and friendly conversation?
She lives about twenty miles from Athens, and she thinks of me as a son.
None, my lord.
At least tell me where you’re going.
On a night like this a campfire in an empty field would be like the heart of a dirty old man—a tiny spark in a cold body.
What could you possibly ask of me that I wouldn’t give you, as long as it didn’t damage my honor and self-respect?
He’s not wise enough to be brave.
These vows are just traps for stupid birds.
I swear by Jupiter I’ll never revoke this punishment.
No.  
Along with this strange power, he also has the gift of prophecy and various other abilities.
Don’t refuse the love we offer you.
You may leave.
Everything will be all right.
So I’d like it copied.
When I left him, he was less than nine miles from here.
Do you have unusual snakes there?
Are your tears wet?
Let’s see.
Smile, then, on this beautiful union.
You’re sure full of smooth answers.
Oh cowardly conscience, how you’re torturing me!
Is she enclosed in silver, which is ten times less valuable than gold?
Try being sick, great greatness, and see if ceremony can cure you!
Are you going to let us in?
Or are we both on drugs?
Take it off and throw it on the ground.
Other countries criticize us for our loud partying.
Did it stay a long time?
Why stay when love tells you to go?
Call me when it’s lit.
Do you think Alexander the Great looked like this when he was buried?
They wouldn’t say anything?
Very suspicious.
He’s like a huge wheel on the top of the highest mountain whose spokes touch the rim of ten thousand smaller things—when it falls down the mountain, every little object goes down with it.
Educated men are so impressive!
When was the last time you saw my father?
You mean the sun!
You are about as much of a thinker as worm’s meat is a nice steak.
If she rants, I’ll tell her that she sings as sweetly as a nightingale.
No, add a couple more syllables.
If I can tame him, I’ll charge as much as I can get for him.
In that case, I don’t much care for you either.
Why is the Jew waiting?
I can tell by his voice that this man is a Montague.
Is this a dagger I see in front of me, with its handle pointing toward my hand?   
I have walked around the streets, exposing myself to the perilous night, unbuttoned like this, as you see, Casca, baring my chest to the thunderbolt.
Do so.
My door is locked.
I also heard that your daughter spent eighty ducats in Genoa one night.
Brother, Duke, please have some food.
He’ll run after her.
Let me ask you something in private.
Tell her about my son Paris’s love for her.
Please let me be your servant so I can be with you.
Come, let’s continue on toward your father’s house.
He’s arrived.
By all means.
Yes, but now there’s no way to calm him down.
He has both my power and my influence over Octavia.
Revenge.
He’s the most stubborn dog that ever lived among humans.
True,” she said, “a fine little one.” “No,” I said, “a huge wit.” “Right,” she said, “a hugely awful one.” “No,” I said, “he has a good wit.” “Exactly,” she said, “it’s good and mild; it doesn’t hurt anyone.” “No,” I said, “Benedick is wise.” “He is certainly,” she said,  She cried a lot at that, and said she didn’t care.
It’s true.
Silly babbler, how you talk!
Go inside, Nerissa.
My lord the ruler of Burgundy, I’ll speak to you first.
Thank God and my horoscope!
Though he seems a little old-fashioned, there is much care and courage in this Welshman.
That’s good.
I’m the ghost of your father, doomed for a certain period of time to walk the earth at night, while during the day I’m trapped in the fires of purgatory until I’ve done penance for my past sins.
What’s that trumpet?
God save the charitable organization!
Yes, he was.
But since I’ve gotten myself involved this far, because I’m so stupidly honest and because I like you so much, I’ll keep going.
How much does he owe the Jew?
Exactly how long is that, do you think?
The container of that great soul is now cold.
Yes, that’s the one.
You’re competing for
Why, what do you imagine his name to be?
It’s Casca—I know your voice.
I used to be the man in the moon a long time ago.
But aren’t there some healthy men whom we have to make sick?
Yes, just now, my lord.
Four legs and two voices—a very special monster.
You represented yourself as just a common man.
Thank you, sir.
Remember me.
Listen, in books they say that true love always faces obstacles.
Tonight we’ll wander through the streets and observe the people.
We’ll have another bear-baiting just to make him angry, and we’ll mock him till he’s black and blue.
Anything I did to you, I did it because Sir Toby made me.
A jumbled confession can only receive a jumbled absolution.
I’m happy to meet you, my lady and my wife.
I’ll take it over to the pile.
He’s afraid to come in.
That’s a stupid thing to say.
Give me the necklace!
We won’t, sir.
I never saw a better-designed gown, more elegant and pleasing and well made.
What news can you tell me in this fast-moving, unsteady state of ours?
I sense you’re treating me like a child.
What my lord said I was.
Tell me, Friar, in what part of my body is my name embedded?
I’m glad.
He followed the old man.
Oh, fine.
But enough about that.
His faults were equally matched by his virtues.
Have them come in.
What kind of devil are you to torture me like this?
Why should that name be proclaimed more than yours?
I’m going to laugh myself to death over this silly monster.
Beware of jealousy, my lord!
In the entire play, not one word is well-written, and not one of the actors is right for his part.
Is he standing or sitting?
Most noble man, will you die?
I’ll stop your mouth with a kiss.
You resent my friends' rise in society, and my own.
Let me speak proudly
No, my dear cousin.
But I have a legitimate son a few years older than this one, and I don’t love him any more than I love my bastard.
Have a good night!
If you do, please give it to me, because I need to start learning the lines.
What is this?
Sir, pardon me for what I am about to say.
So tell me, Grumio, how goes the world?
Madam?
I’ll do anything rather than marry a drunk, Nerissa.
Well, I’m not sorry to hear that, because they have always been my enemies.
So I can sleep away the time while my Antony is gone.
Then I hope night shadows your day, and death takes your life!
And what irks me more than all these things put together is that he does it under the pretense of love—as though for me to eat or sleep would bring on fatal illness or sudden death.
I was afraid this would happen, because he was a noble, brave man, but I didn’t think he had a weapon.  
Then a third of the world is drunk.
And in her eyes I see a fire that would seem to burn away the lies the princes have told about her chastity.
The day, my friends, and everything await me.
Yes, we should get his support, for his mature presence will make others think well of us and speak out in support of our actions.
That’s him.
Then we’ll be stuffed with news.
What are you saying?
Tell her to put her mind at rest.
What a strange sight—a man who has put on all his fancy clothes but forgotten his brain at home!
Your misery will make them sharp and piercing like mine.
Fast!
Good-bye.
Yes, yes!
Show him in.
Even if these men have escaped the law and punishment at home, they cannot escape God.
Oh, kill me!
If I were my father, cousin, would I do this?
Did you fall?
He’ll do whatever Hastings does.
Oh, mischief has ruined our plans!
You’ll take the mustard or you’ll get no beef from Grumio.
Off!
I wrote a verse to this tune, though it’s not very imaginative.
We’re being haunted.
Mark Antony heard that you were preparing to wage war on him.
With all my heart, I’ll go right away.
The servants of the Duke and my lieutenant?
Are there magic spells that can lead young virgins astray?
Could my good brother-in-law—a man to whom the
These are ugly antics.
You heard her say it wasn’t me.
Farewell.
What a worthy man!
Here, hang them on this clothesline.
Nothing that interests me, my good lord.
On my life I swear to you that your youngest daughter doesn’t love you least.
Then you might as well say they’re not dead.
Gloucester’s eyes?
Ah, good old Kent said this would happen—that poor, banished man.
Tyrrel, I mean those bastards in the Tower.
This is what happens when you act rashly.
I must go report what happened.
I wish my eyes were 
The kind that tells you that the Moor is having sex with your daughter right now.
He will if he lives long enough to become a man.
Are you really going to tell me that?
Don’t do this!
The Lord in heaven bless you, noble Harry!
Don’t you have any sense at all?
They’ll assume that Cicero, with his sound judgment, ordered the actions.
Just now.
Yes, very much like a whale.
Where’s Antony now?
If Fulvia were the last woman on earth, there would be a reason to grieve.
I’d like you to, see, because you don’t like it, and because it isn’t to your taste, and because it doesn’t agree with you.
Who’s that?
Now that I think about it, Maria was the one who first told me you were insane.
Have you completely forgotten?
Did he confess?
Look—they’re crying.
Have a good life.
Stand up if you’re really a man.
No, no more than is reasonable.
This stormy night will turn us all into fools and madmen.
Hello, sir.
Whatever I say, or think, or do, you’re continually contradicting it.
Go ahead.
Captain Jamy is a wonderfully valorous gentleman, that’s certain, one with great learning and knowledge concerning ancient warfare, I happen to know from his maneuvers.
Go back again, to be beaten home again?
Why only a few courtiers, my lord of Buckingham?
Maybe you will find a husband without a beard.
Fortune is happy today and, in this mood, will give us anything we want.
Come, night.
If I’m not dreaming, you are Emilia.
Are you headed to the Tower?
When was there ever before so great a loss on one side and so little on the other, in the ordinary and equal clash of battle?
This is beyond words and beyond belief!
And yet I would have made her happy had our luck not been so bad.
No Duke of spineless Burgundy can take this treasure of a girl from me now.—Say goodbye to them, Cordelia, even though they’ve been unkind to you.
He didn’t know how to stop it.
What has Caesar done to deserve your love?
God have mercy, Grumio!
Yes, be content, good Touchstone.
His daughter and I will be king and queen—God protect us!—and you and Trinculo will be our governors.—Do you like that idea, Trinculo?
Tom’s chilly.
Let it end, or let me die so I won’t have to watch any more of it.
But he’s not better than mine.
Let me see them.
Let the old ruffian discover that I have many other ways to die, and in the meantime, we’ll laugh at his challenge.
Yes, of course.
This way, we can see how the world moves.
There is a poor old man who, purely out of love, has limped after me for miles.
I haven’t eaten today.
Let that be enough for you.
That’s five to one.
But I’m wishing for something I already have.
Who’s that?
By Jove that thunders!
So you took pleasure in bringing me this message?
When Roscius was an actor in ancient Rome — The actors have arrived, my lord.
The king has agreed to every point
Launcelot, what’s going on?
I like you guys.
My fears can’t actually make you evil.
No, Messala.
I hope maybe then you’ll send him back home soon.  
I’ll straighten it, then play— Where’s the Queen?
I wouldn’t care about my spirits, if my legs weren’t tired.
Please, come to his house with me.
The words expressly specify “a pound of flesh.” So take your penalty of a pound of flesh, but if you shed one drop of Christian blood when you cut it, the state of Venice will confiscate your land and property under Venetian law.
Either the lovers have different social standings—
Are you wise?
Fool, fool, hey, fool!
Then Octavia’s complaints will rouse Caesar, and as I said before, the thing that brought them together will part them.
Won’t he?
So will we all.
I found it in my room, and Iago just confessed that he put it there for his own purposes.
Besides, I have some business to take care of in town.
Okay, I’m ready.
Tie up his withered old arms.
Oh, I was such a beast to be angry at him.
They only feel the shadow of joy.
We’re two lions born on the same day in the same litter, and I’m the older and more terrible.
Now be quiet.
That’s what you’ll say once you’ve seen part two.
I’ve got her now, but I’ve got God to thank for it!
Please, do me this one favor
Just remember to grab his books first, since without them he’s just a poor fool like me, and can’t command a single spirit.
And if I were king of it, you know what I’d do?
What, out in a storm in the middle of the night?
Did you hear her speak?
Therefore, love and tongue-tied simplicity can say the most even when they’re saying the least, in my opinion.
But you were with him, weren’t you?
If that’s not the case, then this must be the answer
Haven’t you ever heard the saying, “Two can conspire to put one away”?
If only you had a clearer memory of who you are!
Will you pull your sword out of its sheath?
Messala, I have received these letters explaining that young Octavius and Mark Antony are rushing toward Philippi and bearing down upon us with a mighty power.
His son was a minor only two years ago.
Tell me.
All of us have reason to mourn the dimming of our shining star the king.
I tell you, this will make her angry when she hears about it.
Did you call me?
I’ll make him tell me the whole story again—where, how often, how long ago—and when he plans to sleep with your wife in the future.
Where are your sister and Hortensio’s wife?
What do you mean by “furniture”?
Yes, my lord.
I am sorry for her, as I should be, since I am both her uncle and her guardian.
When storms arrive early, you can expect the harvest will be damaged.
Still, it stands to reason that he mustn’t betray his fear, as it might dishearten his army.
It is better to be tricked completely than to only suspect a little.
I hope you sleep peacefully.
Go, tell the Prince.
My Cordelia, even the gods admire how much you’ve sacrificed for me.
Please say no more.
Double, double toil and trouble, Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
And I’ll be eternally grateful to you.  
I’ll give him my gray horse Capilet if he forgets the whole thing.
You’re this poor and wretched and still afraid to die?
I’m going to Count Orsino’s court.
That’s burglary, that is.
It’s a sweet lozenge that you choke on.
How strange I’m feeling!
I don’t think there’s a man under the sun who’s worse at hiding his love or hate than Richard.
If there’s any way I can spoil his life, I’ll be overjoyed.
I still have the smell of blood on my hand.
Don’t say that.
We’ll start a fire.
Those of you who are young and active, I beg you to follow them and keep them from doing the crazy things their guilt might push them to do.
Mistress and master, you’ve often asked about that lovelorn shepherd you once saw me sitting with, the one who complained about the disdainful shepherdess he was in love with.
It’s yours, and you may hang us, your trophies of war, anywhere you like.
They killed your wife, your children, your servants, anyone they could find.
He’s hiding out in Friar Lawrence’s cell.
It’s best to rehearse there, because if we do it here in the city, we’ll be bothered by crowds of people and everyone will know the plot of our play.
My heart feels like it’s full of poisonous snakes!
It’s true, Hero says so.
The hell with her!
He answered, “You penniless bastard!
I’d do anything to bring them back together, since I really care for Cassio.
Oh, this is a painful time!
Go.
Have you told her our decision?
King Lear, I’ve always honored you as king, loved you as my father, obeyed you as my master, and thanked you in my prayers— I’m furious and ready to snap.
What’s this?
His body will lie in my tent tonight, with the honorable observance that suits a soldier.
That’s him, madam.
Is that chain you’re wearing the one you promised to give to me?
There’d be no work.
Since Macbeth went to war, I have seen her rise from her bed, put on her nightgown, unlock her closet, take out some paper, fold it, write on it, read it, seal it up, and then return to bed, remaining asleep the entire time.
Then tell me if Antonio can be called a brother.
But so what?
Goodbye, Helena.
The Venetians are waiting for their food.
This calm submission is dishonorable and vile.
Struggling with the wind and rain.
But quiet, be quiet a minute.
If I miss this, let me be boiled alive.
That would make anyone cry enough to water his garden with his tears.
Please don’t, sir.
The Constable of France.
She replied by saying that it would be better for him to be her guest instead.
Menas, I’m not going back on shore.
He did ask for mercy.
It’s not true.
Lord Gloucester has helped him leave.
I thought everything out here was wild, which is why I acted so stern and commanding.
How green!
I hope your love for me remains this strong for your entire life!
You can give good news in many ways, but let bad news interpret itself as you tell it.
Then don’t make yourself too conspicuous.
Please forgive me, master.
No more talk about killing yourself, okay?
Run as if your life depended on it.
My lord, he’s afraid you mean him harm.
With that I kiss your hand and call you my queen.
I’m going to find out what you’re thinking.
If you took a good look at yourself, or if you thought about this more carefully, your fear would teach you to act more cautiously.
Who can say I’m evil when my advice is so good?
I’ll follow it.
I’m glad to hear it.
Or at least that’s what I plan to do before I let you go.
Come on, let’s go to prison.
We’ll burn Brutus’s house.
It was probably just a rumor.
I can’t wait to hear him call the drunkard “husband,” and to watch my men smother their laughter as they pay their respects to this simple peasant.
How unlucky am I, having to apologize for doing the right thing!
That’ll happen soon enough.
What’s the prize?
If I can tell him that you have submitted to him sweetly, he’ll request your assistance in finding ways in which he can support you.
Let me be captured.
Who’s there?
I was sent for a rope!
No.
Romeo’s a dishcloth compared to him.
Who do you think you are coming in here armed?
Sir, Octavius has already arrived in Rome.
Yes!
I never tried to win over a friend or enemy with sweet words.
with the same accessories.
Hang out?” Who do you think we are, musicians in a band?
How could I forget, my lord!
Nice to see you.
Yes, my good lord.
them brothers, friends, and countrymen.
Do you know the way to Dover?
When she landed at the port, Antony sent an invitation for her to come to supper.
Did it really work?
Oh, just see what happens after the pageantry is over!
Nevertheless, it’s all one—the two rivers are as alike as my fingers are to my fingers, and there are salmon in both.
Then, gentlemen, we can count on trouble.
You are their heir and sit on their throne, and the blood and courage that glorified them run in your veins.
Bianca’s love made me trade places with Tranio while he masqueraded as me around town.
I’ll give you more instructions later.
It only looks a little paler.
Antonio’s a good man.
My friends, remember that you’re my guests here.
Faster, Eros, faster.
I’m not like you.
I feel sorry for you.
You are a rude, ragged nurse and an old, sullen playmate for such tender princes.
I humbly thank you.
Who I am and what I want are a secret.
Come now, keep your oath.
He lost both, my lord.—Ma'am, this letter is from your sister, and needs an immediate answer.  
I’ve lost my name and title to a traitor.
Goodbye.
Should I say to you, “Set them free!
Back when I was a schoolboy, if I lost an arrow I would try to find it by shooting another arrow in the same direction, watching the second arrow more carefully than I had the first.
Turn around, you dog from hell, turn around!
Next thing you know, he’ll be saying “widower Aeneas.” “Widow Dido,” did you say?
That must be because you’re so ambitious.
I know my nails are stronger than my eyes; I’ll scratch them out.
Come on—kill me and brag about it!
When I raise my hand, you do the same, and bring it down on Gonzalo’s head.
Go there and compare her objectively to some other girls I’ll show you.
Because of your advice and your help, I have a high position now.
To tell the truth, Gratiano, you’re giving your wife a valid reason to get upset.
Will my daughter be a good musician, do you think?
Listen!
You men are rank beginners!
Evidence enough to deceive the Prince, anger Claudio, ruin Hero, and kill Leonato.
I’ll frown at them as they pass by, and they can react however they want.
I swear, at the moment I really couldn’t tell you how I ended up here.
I’ll do as you say, father.
I’d rather lie in the Nile mud with flies laying their eggs in me, making me disgusting.
The police are here.
I’ll tell you what, Prince
You can do what you want, but he’s an experienced and honorable soldier.
And I know that unless the law intervenes, it’ll be bad news for poor Antonio.
I wish they’d fight in fire or in the air.
Enough!
Carriage” makes it sound like it’s pulling around a cannon.
I am their aunt, and I love them like a mother.
Evil can come from good, just as poisonous snakes tend to come out into the open on bright sunny days—which means we have to walk carefully.
Beat them down!
If you wish.
So, goodbye.
Do you have enough love for me to be patient when my bad temper, which I inherited from my mother, makes me forget how I should behave?
Performing is activity, and he is always doing that.
Richard loves neither me nor any of you.
Did the brothers-in-law leave?
My body waits here, but the rest of me is gone.
That’s  Signior Baptista, will you really be this cruel?
Their hounds are unequaled in courage.
In order to flatter Caesar, would you flirt with the servant who laces up his pants?
And I see a lot of Orlando here.
Don’t believe in this.
Oh, quick, before I’m gone.
Which one of you is Beatrice?
Look, sir, this is a portrait of me as I am at this particular moment.
Everyone thought it would pass then, and it probably would have had it not been for the great civil unrest and uncertainty of the time, which required the matter to be put off.
Yet you killed my children.
You sound like a cattle dealer
It’s really the only way, Sir Andrew.
An honest tale succeeds best when it is told simply.
Well, sir, the gown is not for me.
Why, you speak like an experienced and quiet watchman.
Imagine, me, a drunk!
Master, master, I’ve been on the lookout so long, I’m ready to fall down dead—but I’ve got one, finally!
At that exact moment, Titania woke up and immediately fell in love with him, an ass.
Come on, I’ll fight you.
No, my lord.
If he is too insistent, tell him that romance is like a dance
He who chooses me must give and risk all he has.” Must give everything—for what?
Good Enobarbus, consider yourself my guest as long as you’re here.
Go on, Caesar.
He may recover yet.
Tell her that I’ve been arrested and the money will be my bail.
Dead.
How did her eyes get so bright?
So you’ll be hanged at the state’s expense.
Yes, pilgrim—they have lips that they’re supposed to pray with.
Their lips, like four red roses on a stalk, touched.
Why, the one I just told you about.
I swear, this fool has an excellent singing voice.
What soldiers, milk-face?
Ask for me tomorrow, and you’ll find me in a grave.
When I like the way you look, for God forbid your face be as ugly as your mask!
Give me your hand.
You don’t really love me.
I’ll challenge him.
I pick the younger one.
If he fears God, he must necessarily keep the peace.
His name!
God be with you all.
What’s this?
Just listen this once.
Don’t swear by the future, because you’ve ruined it before it has even arrived.
What soldiers, fool?
I could go on weeping like a woman and bragging about how I will avenge them!
Forever and forever, farewell, Cassius!
shifts, friends, to Southampton.
Why did I just send you home?
If it’s the same one— If it’s the same one, or any one that belongs to her, then together with the other evidence it’s pretty strong.
I’ll wear this one and none other.
I wish you well.
Lay her in the ground, and let violets bloom from her lovely and pure flesh!
Upon the king!
You’re in your own kingdom, sir.
Mistress, think about your end—beware of your death!
What’s the “seventh cause”?
We have to think about that.
You’re rubbing salt in his wounds when you should be applying bandages.
You sell fish.
My letters say only seventy senators were killed, one being Cicero.
What, have you forgotten me?
That was nothing.
Young Prince Edward is still alive—what do you think I’m going to say next?
Run to your houses, fall on your knees, and pray to the gods to spare you the pain that you deserve for such ingratitude.
Apologize?
But often in these cases, reports are just estimates.
I never hurt you.
What is this passion that ties up my tongue?
A soldier is just a tool, like his sword, unless he has your qualities, Ventidius.
I’ll only admit that you’re sane when you agree with Pythagoras and hesitate to kill a bird because it might contain your grandmother’s soul.
My honorable, reverend master?
The princes left your daughter here for dead.
Oh, what a wonderful son, I can impress my mother!
Welcome, my friends.
But I made an oath, an oath, an oath in heaven.
A reason?
But what did you want?
I will.
I admit it doesn’t look that way to me, and the fact that you suspect me shows that you’re smart.
It’s you we were laughing at.
Yes, and I’ll do everything I just said.
God help me!
Flies are like free men, but I have been banished.
She’s full of good intentions.
That light is not daylight, I know it.
Have a seat.
Your logic is so foolish.
But he’s got to build churches for that to happen, my lady, or else he’ll have to put up with being forgotten, like the hobby-horse in the popular song that goes, “Heigh-ho, heigh-ho, the hobby-horse is forgotten.”   What does this mean, my lord?
Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most anything Alexas, almost the most consummate Alexas, where’s the fortuneteller you recommended so highly to the Queen?
Who here is so barbarous that he doesn’t want to be a Roman?
Why are you talking like that?
That can’t be.
Why would you have me betray the truth of my emotions and make my love wander in some other direction?
Before sunrise tomorrow, we’ll kill anyone who escaped today.
As I remember, this should be the house.
With all my heart.
Hey, mistress!
Oh, shut up.
He’s nearby, and Pindarus has come to salute you on behalf of his master.
I frown at him, but he still loves me.
Not me.
Good-bye, sir.
It is.
Well, how nice, a riddle!
I need proof!
I haven’t done anything wrong.
Who wouldn’t cheat on her husband to make him king?
Don’t misunderstand me, sir.
I’m not moving an inch, pal.
I’ll go for a short walk to calm down my feverish mind.
Did he ask about me?
Let’s go inside and we’ll answer all your questions truthfully.
If you ever had a mother, come in quickly to Sir John.
How could that happen?
As freely, son, as God gave her to me.
I’d be angry with you if the occasion allowed.
Treat them with honor and dignity.
Is Caesar visiting the Capitol tomorrow?
Wait, don’t stand next to each other.
To Adriana?
It should work.
She had no food today and will have none.
I put my trust in you.
But look, Cassius, Caesar looks angry and everyone else looks as if they’ve been scolded.
He’s a fool, a madman, and a drowned man.
Don’t bother trying to intimidate me by putting your hand on your sword.
The king my father?!
No, we can just announce the actor’s name, and let his face show through the lion costume, and have him say something himself.
Babbling senselessly?
Not even one success?
I hear a noise inside.
Dear Bassanio, my ships have all been wrecked.
Then Antony offered it to him again, and he refused it again (though, in my opinion, he was reluctant to take his hand off it).
Let’s go.
Lay me next to my mistress.
I think they do.
Thank you.
Really?
If he can keep it, he’ll be set forever.
He does indeed show sparks of something like wit.
Go away, get out of here, and stop following me.
Good morning, cousin.
Madam.
Therefore I say again that he must have used some powerful drug or magic potion on her.
God willing, our love and our happiness will only increase as we get older.
Didn’t you figure out that I left you because I hate you?
Don’t be crass.—You all look confused.
Oh, the glory of war has faded.
Is there anyone to give the bride away?
Well, my good fellows, wait on me tonight.
Isn’t there any other rite you can perform?
Oh, lieutenant!
Farewell, then, Signior Lucentio.
But now I must condemn it.
By Jesus, I think they will blow up everything if we don’t improve our tactics.
Risk everything for lead?
Master, if you eat with her, bring really long silverware.
Some of those lines had more feet than the  That’s not a problem
We’ll be ready when the time comes.
If he cannot, let the tailor mend him.
What do you want from me, my good man?
If you’re joining together to right these wrongs, I’ll go as far as any one of you.
Why do you sound so odd?
Benedick, Beatrice praised your wit the other day.
What are you going to do now?
Not the Adam from the garden of Eden, but the Adam from the jailhouse.
Don’t be offended.
Do we have devils on the island?
Even if we don’t fight foreign enemies, we’ll beat down these rebels at home.
Therefore, by law, you are condemned to die.
They’re murdering Caesar!” Who’s there?
So I thank you all, and I invite each and every one of you to come watch me be crowned king of Scotland at Scone.
Or are you just teasing?
Say something.
And how did you get in here?
Or at least I can describe the rumors.
Gentlemen, please try to sharpen his interest even more, and let this play do him some good.
Do you see something wrong with that?
What kind of man is he?
This hard work would be boring and nasty to me, but I’m working for a mistress who makes me enjoy my labor.
Look, your wife is with him.
When was there ever an age, since the beginning of time, that didn’t feature more than one famous man?
I’m sorry, my friend.
I don’t feel anything.
It’s bitterly cold out, and I’m depressed.
Take these keys and get more spices, Nurse.
I can’t get that song out of my head tonight.
I’m helping  Indeed, sir, find something better to do and get lost for a while.
I’ll go put my armor on.
But a lot of men have more hair than intelligence.
And be a happy mother by doing so.
Wait until I read the letter.
I had a scar here that looked like a “T”; now it’s an “H.” They’re retreating.
Goodbye, then.
Are you trying to wash him out of his grave with tears?
You, will you join with me?
Then I’ll really give it to you.
Are you going to take care of this thing now?
If Cleopatra hears even a breath of this, she’ll die immediately.
How would you woo her?
What part of the agreement did I break?
Romeo, Romeo, Romeo!
No, I won’t.
I doubt you’d thank me in the end, but she’s rich, all right, very rich.
I was bound to him an hour ago, sir, but thankfully he chewed through our ropes.
I’ll get it from you, I swear.
So is my horse, Octavius, and for that reason I give him all the hay he wants.
For the sake of our old friendship, I ask you, hold my sword handle while I run on it.
My father can’t think straight—a hundred knights!
I could rhyme like that for eight years in a row, excepting meal times and sleeping hours.
But here’s the plan
If it’s really you, tell me what happened to our son, who floated away with you on that deadly raft.
Who’s this?
Let’s go.
Are you ready, sir?
I have already.
Where did he get wine?
Oh, there’s the problem.
What are you saying?
It’s the tragedy of our times that lunatics must lead the blind.
Where should we stable our horses?
You take the bill and I’ll take your yardstick.
Come on, do you think I can’t recognize you by your excellent wit?
For God’s sake, send somebody else.
I am dying, Cleopatra, dying.
I’ve changed my mind about that.
Hound or spaniel, bitch or dog, Whether your tail is short or curly— Tom will make you cry and wail.
Am I not wise?
Or else their guardians and advisors said no— What hell, to have your love life determined by someone else!
Oh, Tybalt, Tybalt, he was the best friend I had.
Amen to that!
I tried to stop speaking plainly, since you dislike plain speech so much.
In his greatest need, even they will desert him.
As soon as you kill Prospero.
A good laugh.
It usually only lasts about twenty seconds.
Goodbye.
Adieu.
What do you say?
There has never been so black a day as today.
Once at Sardis and once last night, here in Philippi fields.
Do you know any, count?
I wonder why Cambio hasn’t shown up in all this time.
He wants me dead.
Is he losing his mind?
No, none that you’re smart enough to make.
It would be hard, almost impossible.
Why, what are you afraid of?
But it’s enough to know that the day will end, and then the end will be known.
This is not the time for dwelling on personal grievances.
And why do you blame me for loving you?
You will seem even brighter and more virtuous when she’s out of the picture.
Early in the morning we’ll both rush to Belmont.
They tell me you’ve done everything you can to talk him out of what he’s doing.
She’s not even fourteen.
To tell you the truth, they fought the new enemy with twice as much force as before; they were like cannons loaded with double ammunition.
Come here, Ventidius.
Good cousin, good Meg, good Ursula, come help me get dressed.
Sorry, sir, Goodman Verges tends to ramble.
It’s not manly to cry.
Young girls call it “love-in-idleness.” Bring me that flower.
Aren’t the playwrights hurting them by making them upstage adult actors, which they are going to grow up and become?
Only Adam, Rafe, and Gregory were ready.
Let’s carry him to the barracks.
I’ve lurked in the shadows here to watch the downfall of my enemies.
I have done your bidding and fulfilled my promise.
So Litio’s out of the picture.
We’ll see about that!
Some say the lark makes a sweet division between day and night.
Princes and counts!
I’ve acted like such a villain!
Yes, monstrous, monstrous!
No, because my manly heart is grieving.
Have you heard about Albany’s and Cornwall’s troops?
Battered armor, be off.
Why, you scoundrel!
I’m your daughter.
Let us leave everything and give our vineyards to the barbarous nation.
One of you go call the Jew into court here.
For the love of God, help us!
I’ve been transformed somehow, haven’t I, master?
I will do this deed before I lose my sense of purpose.
What news do you have?
Well done!
My own flesh and blood rebels against me!
Why?
I’m good at everything that ordinary men can do.
What have you heard from her?
Fair and noble hostess, we are your guests tonight.
Gonzalo is a miracle-worker.
Beautiful ladies, please don’t treat me badly.
Strange things are about to happen, Edmund.
Come on in, con man.
I’ve almost forgotten what fear feels like.
God be with all of you, princes.
I know the sound of his walk.—Die, villain!
But leave it all to God.
He asks her to do what God  Say she will be a high and mighty queen.
Lord Edmund didn’t speak to your master at home?
My lord, I know what I’m saying.
Get ready for the third hit, Laertes.
A good reputation is the most valuable thing we have—men and women alike.
Phoebe, keep your promise to marry me, and to marry this shepherd if you choose to refuse me.
Why does the world report that Kate is lame?
I swear to you by my virginity at age twelve, I already told her to come.
Well, the peace you pleaded for so eloquently just now lies in his answer.
Make me believe it?
Oh Buckingham, now I’m going to test to see if you’re truly made of gold.
Seyton!—I’m sick at heart when I see—Seyton, come here!—This battle will either secure my reign forever or else topple me from the throne.
Yes, dear little chick, come along with me.—Shut up, man!
What do you mean by that, Malvolio?
What do you have to say, my dear Nurse?
He cried out, “Wait for me, dear cousin.
I want to forget what I am.
I swear by the mass, before I close my eyes to go to sleep, I’ll put in some good fighting, or I’ll lie in the ground dead.
The lark shrilly singing up there is too far away to be heard.
I’ve done everything you accuse me of—and more, much more.
Then right next to him I saw the murderers, dripping with blood, their daggers rudely covered in gore.
We’re strangers here.
Please, hurry up.
The poison is as sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentle—Oh, Antony!—No, I’ll take you too.
Tell me, good grandmother, is our father dead?
Let me tell you, my friend, I’m almost insane myself.
He was so slick in covering over his plans that if it hadn’t been for his love affair with Shore’s wife, I would never have suspected him.
They certainly do like to butt heads!
No, not me, sir.
She was worried about my absence, and about the fact that young Octavius and Mark Antony have grown so strong—which I found out at the same time as the news of her death.
That knife should be in its sheath on that Montague’s back, but instead it’s mis-sheathed in my daughter’s breast.
The interest rate will be— Well, Shylock?
It’s a lie, you thread, you thimble, you measurement!
Go after him and try to calm him down a little.
Aren’t things going well?
Flee?
And now you cry, even though she has risen up above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
Farewell.
If his face changed as much as his personality has, I wouldn’t recognize him.
Go ahead.
You have my friendship.
Let him sink there so the sea will cover him!
Oh Nerissa, my poor little body is tired of this great big world.
She’s a good little woman, and she adores me.
We’ll be married tomorrow.
Antipholus owes me the exact amount that I owe you.
He rests tonight within twenty-one miles of Rome.
That’s comforting.
The friar’s ready.
What kind of question is that!
Where’s my cousin Toby?
I’ve only given the articles a cursory glance.
She mocks all her suitors so severely that they drop the suit.
That’s for to me to decide.
You want proof?
If I ever see it, I will challenge you.
I don’t believe it.
And yet I’ll still have plenty.
Don’t spend any more time here.
Was that the prologue or the inscription on some wedding ring?
I don’t know what you and other men think of this life, but as for me, I’d rather not live at all than live to worship a man as ordinary as myself.
What is it, my lord?
What’s your name?
Don’t stick your head out into the public street to stare at the Christian fools with painted faces.
Casca, you’ll be the first to raise your hand.
She thinks I’ll marry her because she loves me.
It looks like a day when the sun is hidden.
You, sir?
What, are you mocking me to my face?
I’ll go back to sleep now.
The actors are here.
I headed toward him, but he saw me coming and hid in the woods.
She provides an excellent moral.
I can’t believe it.” The tears fell from her eyes like holy water.
But stay calm, and don’t get carried away by rage, or I’ll think you’re not a man.
What does he say?
Yes, and I’ll keep crying a while longer.
Caesar.
This is Casca.
Oh, I only wish I knew the name of that husband you said he predicted will have a cheating wife!
Yes.
Here comes Antony.
Didn’t you go to her for a purse full of ducats?
I go, Caesar.
That’s the way it goes.
I’m forty-eight.
A friend.
If only his lord were more like him.
But since the affairs of men are always uncertain, let’s think about the worst that may happen.
But where is my love?
He’s laughing already!
I will find the time to cry for you, Cassius, I’ll find the time.
What a sad sight!
I’m not sorry, either.
That makes me love you even more.
Give me your hand.
It looks to me like it’s burning in the Capulet tomb.
What an excellent idea—he’ll soak up the wine!
Make yourself comfortable.
Really, young men, though it wasn’t a very hard song to get right, the music was still all out of tune.
How does it feel to be Benedick the Married Man?
Did you hear the news that’s going around?
Orsino.
Kiss him for that, good widow.
That’s the one part of my service on land I do deny.
I see.
But not a member of the royal family, like me.
What’s going on?
But you’d still be gorgeous even if you were as proud as the devil.
She takes these signs for warnings and predictions of terrible evils to come, and, on her knee, she begged me to stay home today.
But you’re lying out in the cold.
Plantagenet.
I don’t think so.
Calphurnia!
Beware of March 15th.
If you had any sense of pity, or manners, you wouldn’t pretend to fight over me like this.
This epitaph will hang here forever, Continuing to praise Hero after I die.
Do you have the lion’s part written down?
Lepidus is red in the face.
Where is my mother?
I’ll run, devil.
No, that’s not true.
Or, if you don’t mind, come to my home, and I’ll wait for you.
We’re at your service, my lord.
But he isn’t here now.
My name is Mary, sir.
Go!
You’re now within a foot of the cliff’s edge.
I’m amazed you’re still talking, Signior Benedick.
You’ve bet on the weaker fencer.
God in heaven bless her!
He doesn’t know he’s been appointed governor yet.
I’m here.
If not, then this parting was well done.
Come back to my house with me.
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome, while I with equal affection welcome yours.
Your disloyal uncle—are you paying attention?
Some of them are leaning already.
We’ll mutiny.
What’s the matter, dear?
May good luck follow you!
If I didn’t have so many enemies in Orsino’s court, I’d go join you there.
Now go, set up for dinner.
The sails were dyed purple, and they were perfumed so heavily that they made the air seem dizzy with love.
What should I say?
And then I’ll be the leader of pain, and maybe I’ll lead you as far as death.
Because who is this man they follow?
Get busy, go!
No, don’t even mention him.
You look angry.
Can a person be forgiven and still keep the fruits of his crime?
He gives BIONDELLO  Here comes Baptista.
What are you going to do for her?
Is that you, Iago?
Isn’t he getting funnier?
I’d be wasting my skills dealing with an idiot like that if I couldn’t get something useful out of him.
He’s a stylish man.
No, you’ll have to excuse me.
Your servant Kent.
I haven’t even heard a mouse squeak.
Laugh at the power of other men, because nobody born from a woman will ever harm Macbeth.  
He was the one who denounced his father.
Come on, please sing.
But why, you villain, did you kill my cousin?
She can’t hurt you, Helena.
What would you like me to do at Salisbury?
Don’t be disturbed by my illness.
With his own lightning bolts; I’ve shaken up the sturdy cliffs and uprooted pines and cedars; I’ve opened up graves and awakened the corpses sleeping in them, letting them out with my powerful magic.
And trust me, love, you look pale to me too.
If I told you that, what would I get out of it?
We should all kneel before her, men of Cyprus!
Ask her to help you heal the rift between her husband and you.
Why does he talk like that to a girl he can’t stand?
Anyone who builds his hopes on air lives like a drunken sailor hanging on a mast, ready with every dizzy nod of his head to tumble to the bottom of the sea.
Say no more.
They made more money and got more attention in the city.
As long as I’m alive, I’ll be here.
What’s going on here?
When I freed you from slavery, didn’t you swear to do this when I asked you?
This is Cinna.
Signior Gremio, are you coming from the church?
No wonder she’s waiting to get married.
Why do we party until we’re like animals?
He is called Ensign Pistol.
Oh, damn her, damn her!
You lover of that damned whore, you’re talking to me of “ifs”?
Young people often lose their self-control even without any help from others.
If we didn’t have rational minds to counterbalance our emotions and desires, our bodily urges would take over.
I’ll rest here.
God pardon those who are responsible for Clarence’s troubles.
Or in the power of reason.
A woman who was beautiful but never proud, who could speak well but knew when to be quiet, who dressed well but was never overdressed, who had self-restraint even when she could get what she wanted, a woman who never took revenge, who overlooked it when people hurt her, who was too wise to do anything stupid, who could think without revealing her thoughts, and who could refrain from flirting with men in love with her, that kind of woman, if she ever existed, would— Would do what?
Tell me so I can be satisfied.
And your father was Duke of Milan, and you were his heir, a princess.
It will give you some protection from this storm.
What did he say the symptoms were?
This disrespectful stance toward the man who is your lord, your king, your governor tarnishes your beauty the way the frosts of winter blights the land.
He commanded me to wake him up early.
Calm down, Kate.
Hail, Caesar!
He will show me the part of heaven where the bachelors sit, and I’ll have fun there forever.
Here he is.
Let him mount the pulpit.
Thinking, my lord?
Put on your nightgown, in case someone comes and sees that we’re awake.
Monster, I’ll kill this man.
Pity the hand that shed this valuable blood.
This toast is for Lepidus!
Go around the forest, moving faster than the wind, and make sure you find Helena of Athens.—She’s lovesick, and her face is pale from all the sighing she’s been doing, because sighing is bad for the blood.
He feels the need to grace all his other tramps with his presence while I sit at home starving for a smile from him.
Come on, get ready.
Hello, sir!
No, my good lord.
Curse my very heart, but I think you should be happy in this second marriage, because it’s better than your first.
What’s your name?
You lie.
No eyes in your head til there’s money in your wallet?
And servants of the Danish king.
The king is coming here tonight.
Was I even close to you in the chase for the goose?
That’s enough for me, then.
Her grapes, which make the wine that cheers our hearts, die unpruned on the vines.
And what would you give me for the handkerchief?
He wants the child for himself, to accompany him on his wanderings through the wild forests.
He’s as ugly in his manners as he is in appearance.— I will indeed.
I never saw the necklace, so help me heaven!
But why do you keep me here so long?
Look how she leans her hand on her cheek.
You’re on very good terms with the duke of Exeter.
It has the mark of 
I’m not a traitor.
That’s true.
Yes, gentle cousin, if it were light enough for you.
He’s lost his comrades and is wandering around looking for them.
But they are dead, and you killed them, you slave of the devil.
Just the weathervane moving.
My good lord, I still need you to like me.
There he is at the window.
Well, that’s a fine answer.
That’s what he says.
I can’t enjoy either of them as long as the other one’s alive.
He looks angry.
Are you lovebirds only starting to pair up now?
Fathers, never trust your daughters just because they act obedient and innocent.
Examine them yourselves, then bring me your findings.
I’ll keep my oath and patiently suffer through my anger.
Who are you?
How are you, sir?
Damn him!
Your Honor’s is unhealthy talk.
I order you to stop!
You’re looking for Lord Hamlet.
What’s all the noise in here?
It was Kent, sir, the exiled Kent, who, after the king treated him like an enemy of the state, put on a disguise and followed his king, carrying out tasks unworthy of even a slave.
Is it good or bad?
I hope so too, Madam.
More shouting!
Let’s go.
You always know he’s got some plan that pleases him when he says good morning with such gusto.
Your father!
There isn’t much time.
Oh, what a sad day!
Oh, my lord, my lord, forgive my panic!
It’s true that my brother’s daughter is Queen of Tunis, and heir of Naples.
There isn’t a nobler man than Antony in all of Rome.
But you have to.
Please just listen.
Are you sure we’re awake?
Will no one back me up?
You there, sir, come here please.
What is your wish with regard to her?
What’s the matter, lieutenant?
He insisted on leaving this ring with me whether I wanted it or not.
Please tell him I have surrendered to his fortune.
A husband?
Come on, take us to him.
My lord?
Here’s to you!
Yes, that’s true.
Hot, hot and moist.
In any case, our survival depends on putting together the strongest force possible.
She was only dead, my lord, as long as her slander lived.
This is our station.
Stars, my lord.
Come, help me bang on the door, master.
It’s too much.
Around three or four o'clock, look for news from the meeting hall.
Is that how it is, countrymen?
Day has broken.
With his ambition growing like this—do you hear what I’m saying?
Order supplies for your trip and choose your traveling companions.
You’re right, that’s how it is.
You are in a perilous state, shepherd.
Good morning, Richmond.
He’s dreaming.
Why, the man who shortens his life by twenty years cuts off twenty years of worrying about death.
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon.
Venus went home again, and her little son broke all his arrows, swearing he’ll never shoot them again, but play with birds like other little boys.
Oh, Mother Nature, why did you create lions?
Her eyes are like April
Give me that pickax and the crowbar.
Oh, my dear Cassio!
Out.
I don’t know, madam.
I don’t love Hermia; I love Helena.
Now I must go to the tomb alone.
Well, Brutus, you’re noble.
He was somewhere in the middle, between them . . .
If he breaks the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling.
Oh God, Horatio, what a damaged reputation I’m leaving behind me, as no one knows the truth.
You’re whiter than snow on the black wings of a raven.
Oh, that was unbelievably low!
Stand still.
Tell Ventidius I want to speak with him.
I’d rather be a baboon than kill myself out of love for some woman I can’t have.
You mean the man who used to be Othello?
He calls me “boy” and scolds me as if he had the power to whip me out of Egypt.
Yes, and don’t let anyone come in, or else I’ll break your head.
There isn’t enough leek left for you to swear on.
Please, tell me more.
That’s it?
Why, he’s the Prince’s fool, and a very dull fool at that.
Oh,” he said, “Did you fall on your face?
Let life be short so that shame won’t last too long.
The sorrow that I feel actually belongs to you, and the high life you enjoy actually belongs to me.
What mercy can you show him, Antonio?
Your love’s name is Rosalind?
For the enemy, see—and you can explain this to the duke, see—has dug its own tunnels four yards below ours.
Where are they?
If not, the Fates are on the side of the traitors.
Should we go find Benedick and tell him about Beatrice’s love?
The last thing he did before sending me off, dear Queen, was to kiss—the last of many such kisses—this Indian pearl for you.
What did he say?
He’s without equal!
I wish you’d be patient.
This was the noblest Roman of them all.
May you die of the worst disease!
When you’ve finished all this, return to the porch of Pompey’s theater, where you’ll find us.
Where do you want me to go to respond to these charges?
Oh, Lord!
Thank you.
You see how naïve and foolish I’ve been.
It’s good you hunted for yourself, sir.
If our eyes were policemen, they might capture two thieves at once while we’re embracing.
followed you on your sad wanderings, ever since your bad luck began.
I’ve already had a glass of wine tonight, watered down, but look how drunk I am.
That’s the truth.
Because of me?
She’s alive.
Proculeius, Caesar has heard about what you’ve done here and has sent for you.
If you ever loved me, then please postpone the sweet relief of death awhile, and stay in this harsh world long enough to tell my story.
You’ll have your answer soon.
I’ll write a letter challenging him to a duel on your behalf.
She  I can guess her answer.
I swear, I could do so much— Please, no more.
I’ll stand, and so will Trinculo.
Get a little sleep.
Is this face Hero’s?
I’ve heard that the pyramids build by the Ptolemies are splendid.
Oh, gods, make me worthy of this noble wife!
Be quiet, Signior Gremio.
If you killed Lysander while he was sleeping, then you’re already up to your ankles in blood.
You don’t have more than half an hour to live.
Would you try to lift Mount Olympus?
We are free from his tyranny.
Yes, that’s it!
I’ll find you another horse.
Can’t you talk about anything besides ladies?
We told him we wouldn’t even let him bury his men until he retreated to Saint Colme’s Inch and paid us ten thousand dollars.
What does  You’d have a great hairstyle if you had.
Is this true?
That’s the way a good deed shines in a naughty world.
Oh, that’s disgusting!
Their unfortunate deaths put an end to their parents' feud.
And the one who commands us is our king.
Get lost, will you?
But I’ll tell you something from my soul.
Ah, dear, if that is true, let heaven make poisonous hail grow from my heart, and let the first hailstone drop down my throat.
He would never have spoken to me like this.
It’s revolting!
Please, my lord, don’t be friendly with her.
You can’t party your way into dukedoms there.
Oh, she’s a fine woman!
Thank you, sir.
It’s dangerous to talk about it.
Where?
Well, I wish you liked me.
Let me wrap up your head, and it will feel okay in less than an hour.
Now I’ll tell you the other story about my journey.
He accuses me of withholding his share of Sextus Pompeius’ possessions, which we seized in Sicily.
A sailor’s wife had chestnuts in her lap and munched away at them.
Tell me.
My voice is ragged.
Hurry now, get the job done.
No, don’t cry, kind Eros.
Goodbye, boy.
At my humble house tonight, you can expect to see dazzling stars that walk on the ground and light the sky from below.
Bad deeds will be revealed, no matter how people try to hide them.
He mixed that poison himself.
Me too.
What’s your name, friend?
Goodbye, sir.
This is not the way to win your daughter.
Your children will be kings.
He turned away twice and almost left him there.
But if it overwhelms you to look at Caesar’s wounded cloak, how will you feel, kind men, now?
You don’t know why we came to visit you— Yes, and so unexpectedly, at night.
And so far I’m pleased with the way things have turned out, since I find all of this commotion very entertaining.
That’s true, they are.
Here’s a postscript!.
I beg your pardon, except for the widow Dido.
And tonight, sir, I invite you have dinner with me.
I’m telling you, Aliena, I can’t stand being apart from Orlando.
Welcome to Elsinore.
No, don’t throw any of it away.
He was not born to be shameful.
Your true demonic features are distorting your body.
Don’t be so quick to twist my meaning.
It’s pretty well done, isn’t it?
Yes, every man forward.
I knew that would be your answer.
Don’t do it, sir.
Get away from me, Satan!
Who will thank us now?
Keep your voice down.
If he isn’t what he might be, then I wish to God he were!
Good!
It’s my duty to be quiet.
Look, it’s waving me over again.
I once wrote a sonnet in his praise which began, “Wonder of nature—” I have heard a sonnet to one’s mistress that began like that.
He had no patience.
I hope all reports about me simply tell the truth, no more or less.
Oh no, sir, I won’t let him go, sir, not without a good reason.
The British forces are on their way here.
So please rest.
I’ll look for some way to leave his service.
Please, corporal, stop!
What were you before this?
Do that.
Here’s more news.
His letter will tell you how he’s doing.  
Someone who makes a promise and breaks it.
His nurse, grandmother.
Separate me from life with your sharp teeth.
Good night, Pompey. 
Are you kidding?
What’s going on in here?
Still, I’d hate to see my former dreams return.
I loved him, as much as any father ever loved his son.
It starts, “Shut up.” I’ll never be able to start if I shut up.
That’s strange.
The generals want to speak with us.
Don’t think about her.
Please, sir, be kind to me and tell me.
Shake off sleep, which looks like death, and look at death itself!
No!
This is the brave sergeant who fought to keep me from being captured.
I won’t fight you.
Romeo killed Tybalt.
Next month he’ll stay with us.
I think I can do that.
Do this immediately, and don’t stop searching and interrogating until you’ve brought home these foolish runaways.
So far I’ve done exactly what I was supposed to do—I put the love potion on an Athenian’s eyes.
Here comes Catesby again.
We shall, my liege.
What a silly monster, to think a poor drunk is wonderful.
Oh, gods, give me patience!
Oh, you’re sticking a dagger in me!
I’m tired and feeling heavy, but I can’t sleep.
Not now, my sweet Desdemona.
Say that I hope he never has cause to look for a new master.
Master, knock hard upon the door.
Or maybe I’ve got a hankering for a bundle of hay.
Everything except something to live on.
Madam, hurry as fast as you can get out of my court.
The world is a bad place, where you can’t speak what you know.
Looking just like the dead king.
She knew an old song called “Willow” that reminded her of her own story, and she died singing it.
We’ll put a picture of you on a sign, right above the words “Come see the tyrant!” I’m not going to surrender and have to kiss the ground in front of Malcolm, or be taunted by the common people.
I swear, you speak the truth.
If she offers him her love, it’s very possible that he’ll scorn it, since, as we all know, he tends to be contemptuous.
There was a time when I would have been terrified by a shriek in the night, and the hair on my skin would have stood up when I heard a ghost story.
I like this girl!
Why have you gotten so rude?
Maria!
These child actors are now in fashion, and they’ve so overtaken the public theaters that society types hardly come at all, they’re so afraid of being mocked by the playwrights who write for the boys.
Signor Brabantio, hey!
If you stick with me, when the time comes, there will be something in it for you.
I beg your pardon.
Oh,a footstep as light as hers will never endure the rocky road of life.
But, oh, it makes me bitter to look at happiness through another man’s eyes.
And so, good-bye.
Come with me, my dear Cordelia.
Sure thing, we’ll do it tomorrow morning.
No one shows mercy because he has to.
Please, don’t speak to him.
Just tell me what to do, and I’ll do it.
Would you like to be king of the entire world?
Quiet!
I’m sure he will stay under control.
You force me to read the will, then?
My lord, your noble subjects are looking for you all over the camp.
There isn’t a single protrusion in the castle walls where these birds haven’t built their hanging nests to sleep and breed.
He’s killed three people, and he’s so furious right now that the only thing that will satisfy him is seeing you die.
But that is a false conclusion, since we have locks to keep our valuables safe and clever traps to catch little thieves.
He should go up and offer his petition to Caesar now.
Long live Theseus, our famous and respected duke!
In what sense, my lord?
I just saw him yesterday,” or “the other day,” or whenever it is, you know, “and there he was gambling,” or “there he was, totally wasted, or fighting with somebody about a tennis match, or going into a house of ill repute”—that means a whorehouse, you know—or whatever.
Well, sir, and you, witty lady, who gave me quite a turn with your strange talk, my name is Vincentio, my hometown Pisa, and I am traveling to Padua to visit a son of mine whom I haven’t seen in a long while.
By God, I am not selfish when it comes to money
That I won’t stand for.
What did you say?
It’s like a monster that just grows and grows, out of nothing.
I’m going to make sure I stay on your good side, lady.
They’re never jealous for a reason; they’re just jealous.
Who, him?
What do you mean, my lord?
Say goodbye to your sisters.
What did your song mean, lady?
What an idiot that monster is!
Captain Macmorris, when we have more leisure, see, I will be so bold as to show you I know about the practice of warfare, and that’s that.
If either of you were a prince’s son, and you were imprisoned as I am now, and two murderers like yourselves came to you—wouldn’t you beg for your life?
We need to stay away from each other until midnight tomorrow.
Edmund is dead, my lord.
Will it eat me?
I will, my lord.
Look who’s here!
Shame, eternal shame, and nothing but shame!
If I had as many sons as I have hairs on my head, I couldn’t hope that any of them would die more honorably than he did.
And with another for tying the new shoes he made with old laces?
Now she’s gone forever.—Cordelia, Cordelia, stay a while.
Isn’t this Stephano, my drunken butler?
You can speak to me.
Here’s money for you.
Don’t come near till you hear me call you.
His lips were nice and red, a little more lively and passionate than the red that was in his cheeks—one was pure red and the other more pink.
Yes, my lord.
Who could be out of things to say if he were with the girl he loves?
I never saw Cassio’s kisses on her lips.
Are the others waiting?
The beautiful Rosaline whom you love so much will be at Capulet’s traditional feast, along with every beautiful woman in Verona.
It’s hell in our house, and you helped cheer it up, like a funny devil.
Come here!
We’re absolutely not here to delight you.
She’s ready to go, but she’ll never return. 
I met Venus as she was with her son on her way to her home on Paphos, in a carriage pulled by doves.
Is he angry?
Those trumpets are calling us in to dinner.
I think I saw you there, you wise man.
Please, sir, restrain yourself.
Where is that knocking coming from?
I only partly believe it, for I’m enthusiastic and resolved to meet all dangers without wavering.
You lie.
What a backward world we live in!
Cousins, you all have work to do.—Oh, I beg your pardon.
I’ll use it for fish bait.
That Don John had given him a thousand pieces of gold for wrongfully accusing the Lady Hero.
If you’re as good at pleading to them as I am at saying no to you, this will definitely come to a happy end.
Are we all here?
But wait a minute!
Your lily-white lips, your cherry-red nose, and your buttercup-yellow cheeks are gone, gone forever.
So go away.
When we see that our betters have the same problems we do, we can almost forget our own misery.
I will go straight to visit him.
I’d never heard such raucous music, such pleasant thunder.
Have all your conquests, glories, triumphs, achievements, come to so little?
Now I am no more than a woman, ruled by the same lowly passion as the maid who milks and does the humblest chores.
My brother, your uncle Antonio—just listen to this (I still can’t believe a brother could be so disloyal!
You come from heaven, don’t you?
Go ahead—rage till your proud heart breaks.
If that means I don’t care about anything, you should disappear right now, since you’re nothing.
You would have made me treat them like a tyrant.—I’m done, my lord.
Was that him just now?
In any case, do what you want.
Damn it all to hell!
I’m telling the truth.
It would make him curse the heavens and be damned to hell.
Come on, I’ll take you, but honestly I’m only doing it out of pity.
I’m sorry about your daughter’s death, but I swear our accusations were true, and backed up with proof.
I’ll agree to those terms and even say that Jews are nice.
Very well.
Is it fashionable now for neglected fathers to get so little pity?
It’s not my fault he acts like that, Helena.
So I can eat lunch.
Keep beating, my heart, and muscles, don’t grow old yet—keep me standing.
Oh, to think you’ve been rejected!
Sir, my king, don’t waste your time mulling over how strange this business is.
I’ll stop at every house.
But you, my noble lords, may name a time, and I’ll second it on the duke’s behalf, which I don’t think he’ll mind.
The king of England’s approach is as forceful as a whirlpool.
And do you mean what you’re saying, Gratiano?
Good night, you amazing woman, you.
Poor imitation queen, why do you align yourself with this humpbacked spider when he’s got you trapped in his deadly web?
The table of contents says it’s in the first chapter of his heart.
And as long as she’s herself—wise, beautiful, and faithful—she’ll always have a place in my heart.
My poor husband, my dear Edward!
Come sit on me.
I wish I could live longer.
Curse the day this happened, but it did.
You’re leaving with my tongue in your tail?
Humble as I am, I represent Antony.
It wouldn’t let my soul find its way to air but smothered it inside my gasping body.
Don’t say what you’re thinking, and don’t be too quick to act on what you think.
You promised to take a full year off my sentence.
Uncle, I’m coming out!
The world has become so bad that now little wrens have settled where eagles used to roost.
But my heart is still throbbing to know one thing.
Nobody’s that bad.
And didn’t I finally arrive to comfort you?
Get them in here—Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip, Walter, Sugarsop, and the rest.
The ambassadors are back from Norway, sir.
Is that possible?
I’m backed into a corner with nowhere to run.
Lieutenant Cassio will be on guard duty tonight.
He is in love with Hero.
I’ll get the general’s surgeon.
My lord, your son has paid the soldier’s price
I’ll go with you.
I won’t stay behind.
Oh, and monsieur, be careful not to break the honey-sac.
Well, good for him!
But despite all this, your daughters will give you a lot of money—or do I mean pain?—in the coming year.
Please avoid doing that.
And then again, it’s not so good, but only so-so.
Here I go.
What, like stuff from a house?
Quickly, tell me how.
Run to the Capitol and nothing else?
Murder?
Tell me.
Sweet Montague, be true.
Thank you.
Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had no part in the killing, will benefit from his death—receiving a share in the commonwealth, as you all will.
We know you have a job to do, Brakenbury, and we’ll do what you say.
You take my life when you take away my means of making a living.
Should I perjure my soul by disobeying it?
Traveling from Sardis, two mighty eagles fell on our front flag and perched there, eating from the hands of the soldiers who’d accompanied us to Philippi.
The royal tree has left us other fruit, which, with time, will do just fine on the throne and make us all happy as king, I’m sure.
Within three hours Juliet will wake up.
Get off the field, my lord.
Just now we put him in the abbey over here, and now he’s over there.
I’ll cry my tears for Romeo’s banishment when their tears are dry.
But Lysander’s so attractive that he’s turned heaven into hell!
No, sir, worse off.
I will not live to hear the news from England.
Don’t say that, my lord.
Pretend that you’re standing on the shore, watching a city dance on the shifting waves, and you’ll have an idea of the look of this majestic fleet as it holds a straight course for Harfleur.
Damn it!
With the handicap they’ve given me, I think I’ll win.
I swear, before I die I’m going to see you sick with love.
He’s very serious, which is right for someone in mourning like me.
When she takes a sip, I bob up against her lips and make her spill the drink all over her withered old neck.
Your death would prevent that.
Me, marry her?
Please go find out for certain who has arrived.
Why are your swords out?
Hail!
Sir, enter the castle.
All right, then.
Until that happens, let me be who I am and don’t try to change me.
I couldn’t pay my debt to the Jew on the due date.
I have news—old news such as you never heard before!
No.
Let me choose now.
He’s thirty years old.
If she sends any letters to Richmond, you will be accountable to me for it.
He struck me from under your arm.
All right, but first let the ambassadors speak.
No more of this.
A house, a person?
The sun glints off our armor.
Your brother’s right-hand man.
And lovers' hours are a hundred and sixty times longer than normal ones!
I don’t even know you.
Snip and snip and cut and slash—it’s got more holes than a sieve!
Receive all the blessings of a happy father.
Wash your hands.
I know that, sir.
That was no show.
As I get to leech him, I will show some mercy.
Get yourself to a convent, at once.
No, wait.
He sleeps all day like a cat.
Why, she’s inside.
Take a little vacation in Mantua.
I could swear this is the real Vincentio.  
Thanks for your trouble.
I’ll stay in Messina until you’re married, and then I’ll go to Aragon.
But let’s shake hands, Menas.
And so I’m dying.
I don’t like your faults.
I’m the man who was born to tame you and change you from a wildcat Kate into a Kate as gentle and domestic as other household Kates.
And have I ever seemed less than modest or appropriate to you?
All right.
Take  Beatrice, have you come because I called for you?
Is everything ready for that event?
Sir, you’re old.
My man—monster is so drunk he can’t talk.
He has brought you figs.
I figure that once he’s crippled me, I’ll beg by showing off my beatings.
For someone as intelligent as you the situation must be clear enough.
The Prince and Claudio are supposed to be here by now.—You know your job, brother.
So have your money ready.
Out of the frying pan and into the fire—from a tyrant duke to a tyrant brother!
Your mother.
Where is he now?
I can get the better of religion and a few flimsy vows between a misguided barbarian and a depraved Venetian girl.
It’s driven me crazy.
Labio and Flavio, push our armies onward.
I’ve never seen him like this.
Tell me, please
What kind of game is this?
But suppose I did all the things you named out of love for her.
But don’t keep wondering without more proof.
A snake could do that as easily as you could.
Can’t any prayers reach your heart?
What is it?
Oh, help!
If I don’t do all this, never trust me again.
Bardolph, be happy.—Nym, rouse your bragging spirits.—Boy, be brave.
Caesar wrote for him to come to Rome.
God bless you, Mr.
Please.
You’ll see, I promise you.
Listen to what the tyrant says.
Sure, to a cheap host and an even cheaper guest.
Why are you acting so angry?
He claimed to know that already too, and said that’s the reason he’s come to speak with you.
Let me see your eyes.
I will, my liege.
So that means she’ll come.
Oh Banquo, Banquo, the king has been murdered!
Therefore, all lovers should speak for themselves.
Damn it, shut your mouth.
You can’t trust all the rumors.
You’re better off because of your friends.
I will, my lord.
Do you know him?
Get me a surgeon!
I don’t know, madam.
He said that the people weren’t used to being spoken to except by the  What blocks of wood!
You know, you’re right.
Anything.
But you still wish the gods had made me poetical?
That’s not your fault!
It is an honor that I do not dream of.
I won’t trouble you so much as to wake you.
You go ahead, and I will follow you.
We’re following you not only because it is our duty, but also because we want to.
I’m sure you aren’t Launcelot, my boy.
You’re kidding!
Three thousand ducats, hmmm.
And then his clerk, who went to a lot of trouble with the writing, begged for mine.
It’s almost morning.
Herbs, plants, and stones possess great power.
Maybe?
Farewell.
My brother whom—aside from you—I loved more than anyone else in the world, I trusted to run my state, which at that time was the strongest in the land, and Prospero the number one duke, famous for my dignity and my education.
After you cast your magic spell on me last time, I sent you a ring.
Your father’s sons would make excellent husbands, if only a girl could catch one for herself.
Excellently, excellently.
BASSANIO Please, Leonardo, think about this  I’ll do my best.
Would you tie me to a whole world of worries?
Leave him alone.
I’m your master, Dromio.
The rest of the king’s guests are already inside.
No, my lord.
Your name’s Gloucester.
Then why am I worried?
Who’s this Adam you speak of?
And all my children?
I’m hanging on every word.
I like it too.
Don’t take too long, unless you want our king to come after me to ask what’s holding things up, because he’s already landed here.
Who treated you badly?
Is this servant of yours a smart man?
You coward, did you run away from me?
How short am I?
Moron!
Why, sweetheart?
She gave it to him, and he gave it to his whore.
They have me tied to a stake.
Your husband lies dead there, and Paris too.
Gloucester, it’s true that we are in great danger.
It’s nothing.
Sir, he’s with Caesar.
But for the whole world?
Young man, excuse me, how do I get to the Jew’s?
How long has he been there?
But I’ll get you a candle and paper and ink.
So you’ve dared him to single combat.
Now get out of here.
A man who achieves more in war than his captain does becomes his captain’s rival.
I’ll break my spells and bring them back to their senses, and they’ll feel like themselves again.
Yes, I am.
We shouldn’t displease him.
Let’s give them room.
Stay and tell me more.
Now summon up the image of stealthy murmurs and engulfing darkness filling the wide vessel of the universe.
We should speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.
Here and now I seem like Antony, but I can’t keep myself in this form, my boy.
Oh earth, which soaks up this blood, revenge his death!
Absolutely, yes indeed.  
Cassio’s a handsome man.
What, is he dead?
Well, well, I don’t care.
Stay right here and try to look good.
Say what you want, but I know what I know.
Come on, Antonio.
Who’s taken over the watch for you?
By next week, I’ll be able to pay you.
Tomorrow is the happy day, Audrey.
Tell us when you wish to get married, and may God give you joy.
In a minute, sir.
He saved me the trouble
Tranio, let’s go.
So long.
I’m headed for your niece, sir.
If I can’t do it myself, I’ll find someone who can.
You once stole my position; now you get to have the grief that goes with it.
But will my Rosalind do this, too?
We can all go together.
This shepherd boy reminds me quite vividly of my daughter.
Why did you carry these daggers out of the room?
One of the sisters poisoned the other out of love for me, and then killed herself.
I couldn’t go to Mantua because I was stuck there.
Beware of the devil.
I would die of pity to see someone else in my condition.
There’s been a whole debate on the topic.
Gertrude, don’t drink that.
No, that’s not it, trust me.
Leave it alone, you fool.
Write down that Prince John is a villain.
May a plague strike both your houses.
She’s more cunning than anyone can imagine.
Speak.
You will also confess, I’m sure, that you love me.
And though I wouldn’t dare to swear that you love me, still my blood begins to flatter me that you do, despite the ill effects of my face.
And so he fainted.
My lord, the enemy has already passed the marsh.
I mean, what do the words say?
I’ve left our luggage on the ship, and I bought the oil, balm, and liquor you wanted.
Where’s Publius?
He should swear by his two-faced self, and that’s an oath I’ll believe!
He doesn’t seem to be alive.
A boy robbed you, but you’ll beat up the post instead.
I’ve wanted to see you for a long time now, but I sent for you so hastily because I need your help right away.
That’s true.
Yes,” said my uncle Gloucester, “Small plants are graceful, while ugly weeds grow fast.” And since then, I’ve wished I wouldn’t grow so fast, because sweet flowers are slow while the weeds grow in a hurry.
Get out of here, you measly, lying wretch.
I hope I never achieve success if I don’t feel some of your heartbroken grief right now.
And mine say two hundred.
I hear someone knocking at the south entry.
Don’t waste any time.
Is Marcus Luccicos in town?
We’ll draw straws.
Whatever you want—I made it for you.
Hail to you, thane of Glamis!
Is this possible?
Let me be put to death.
If you wish.
Be sad only at the fact that you’ll lose your friend—your friend doesn’t regret that he paid your debt.
I’m amazed how similar you and your daughters are.
He’s definitely the most active gentleman of France.
Not us.
I have more news too.
Come, shall we hunt some deer for dinner?
At this time of night?
No, he has only a little beard.
Good-bye, kind Charmian.
I will not take it.
It was a lovely wedding, and we’re doing really well on our trip home.
Learn to see better, Lear, and let me stay here where you can look to me for good advice.
What’s amazing is how long he lasted.
You can’t talk about something that you don’t feel.
I’m learning every hour how to be subservient.
It’s noble Kent, your friend.
So have a seat and talk to her.
No.
Demetrius doesn’t think so, and that’s all that matters.
Such a kind father!—Are my horses ready?
This is the silliest thing I’ve ever seen.
This is a rotten song to sing at a man’s funeral.
Do you really think I’m no stronger than the rest of my sex, with such a father and such a husband?
Captain Macmorris, if you take my words in some way other than how they were meant, see, I’ll have to think you’re not treating me with the good will you ought to, see, since I am as good a man as yourself, both in the practice of war and in my country of origin and in other respects.
But his ambition—for that, I killed him.
Even the fragile wren, the smallest of birds, will fight against the owl when it threatens her young ones in the nest.
With my music playing in the background, I’ll lure fish.
I can.
If so, when it’s day, where are you going to find a cave dark enough to hide your monstrous face?
He was covered with blood from his helmet to his spurs.
I have lived long enough.
He recognizes me like a blind man recognizes a cuckoo—by its bad voice.
And he’s still warm, by God.
Didn’t you hear it?
I’ll fall at his feet and lie there until my pleading and crying convinces the duke to come here and force my husband to leave this abbey.
I will kiss your lips.
What, you’re not a whore?
What have you got on your head?
Do you acknowledge the contract?
It doesn’t matter.
Be patient, sir!
I’ll make you sing.
Come, sit, sit, and sing me a song.
You’ll be sick tomorrow because you’ve stayed up all night.
It seems to me like we’re still sleeping, still dreaming.
Well, my friends praise me and make me look like an idiot, while my enemies tell me straightforwardly that I am an idiot.
He’ll think these letters are from Olivia and that she’s in love with him.
I’m sure he’s somewhere on the island.
And if the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating idiot, does that mean, you think, that we should also be an ass and a fool and a prating idiot?
It might happen that these strange signs, the unusual terror of this night, and the urgings of his fortune-tellers will keep him away from the Capitol today.
Is this the king we offered to ransom?
No, lieutenant—God, gentlemen—Help—Lieutenant—sir, Montano—Help, men!—The night guard is coming!
There goes a strong fellow, Menas.
Who was it?
I want you.
He’s trembling in his fit!
I’ll bring you there.
Believe me, then, that I have special powers.
Where, where?
Do you recognize this face?
I’ll try to calm him down for you if I can.
If we look like musicians to you, you can expect to hear nothing but noise.
Certainly.
Write to him from me—I’ll sign it—sending greetings and gentle good-byes.
Sweet saint, for goodness’s sake, don’t be so angry.
Exactly.
It would be much appreciated.
Tomorrow, soldier, I’ll fight by sea and land.
I’ll go hunting again tomorrow, I think.
Only to watch that title become worthless, as her mother has.
Today our hopes are at an end.
What were the primary evils he claimed women were guilty of?
Her name is Katherina Minola, famous throughout Padua for her scolding tongue.
I wish we were safely on board our ship already.
No offense taken.
But I won’t leave this spot, no matter what they do.
Dromio, you drone, you snail, you slug, you idiot!
What, you don’t want me to be chaste?
Now I’m Dromio and no longer attached to him.
Wait, let me hire him too.—Here’s my fool’s cap, a token of my gratitude.
Give him the goblet.
Now he won’t give me either.
Now all the young men of England are inspired and have stored their party clothes in the closet.
Caesar hanged him for this service.
I curse myself for doing that!
In every one of the lords' households I have a servant paid to spy for me.
Then lay that sentence on me too, my lord.
Let me shake your hand.
I swear the only ransom will be these bones of mine.
If it’s for me, don’t keep it from me.
Just remember who you’ve got on board with you, good man.
Is he all right?
Then the dovehouse shook with the earthquake.
My  Will you come on, cousin?
They’ll tell all.
Canidius, take our nineteen 
You’ll be my wife, dearest, and I’ll serve you forever.
Don’t you see that I’m out of breath?
From their saddles into the dirt—but that’s another story.
While I waited, I’d frown impatiently, and perhaps wind my watch, or play with my—with some expensive piece of jewelry I happen to be wearing.
All this excitement has made the time fly by.
Cheer up, good Adam.
Tybalt wanted to kill you, but you killed Tybalt.
But tell me, how is your cousin?
Who do you think?
If there are any, speak, for it is he whom I have offended.
Weren’t we both born under Taurus?
I hope you’re lucky enough to hear the true story by sticking around. 
But you must not attract iron, because my heart is as true as steel.
Don’t you have a letter for me from the friar?
Ha, ha!
Good morning, General.
Oh, my brave Emperor, this is what I call a fight!
He’s not brave enough to be wise.
Poor Harry of England!
All this conversing has turned men into tongues—and fancy ones, at that.
My name’s Roderigo.
As for me, I welcome my good luck with sadness.
Did you hear a noise?
Brother, hey!
How are you, my friend?
Look how shapely your legs are.
We thought he was a coward, but he fights like a devil.
Nothing can come between me and the fulfillment of all my hopes.
Caesar, I’m telling you that Antony is dead.
Now get out of here!
I’m no villain.
If you aren’t immortal, watch those around you.
It’s nearly dinner time, and the night’s going to be wasted.
I don’t know.
And then, I hope, you’ll be satisfied.
Bless you, fair lady!
I’ve looked at many ladies with pleasure, and been
Do you know me?
His drugs work quickly.
My learned lord, kindly explain to us the legal and religious grounds for why this French Salic law either should or shouldn’t bar me in my claim.
You’ve already stained our sheets with your lust; now I’ll stain them with your whore’s blood.
Madam, there’s a young gentleman at the gate who really wants to speak to you.
Arrest him
It’s your music, madam, from your house.
I wish I could see this invisible drummer.
Not being the worst daughter deserves some praise, I guess.
Will I be married tomorrow morning?
If you interrupt it, he’ll foam at the mouth and go crazy.
I’ll die like a swan.
My lady ordered me to deliver her letter.
I’ll wake him, because that’s my job.
When did I  Do you know where you are, sir?
I’ll lie here tonight.
These past fifteen years you have been living in a dream, and even when you were awake, it was as though you slept.
You don’t know a thing!
How’s the prince?
You wouldn’t have dared, out of fear for your life.
I won’t exhaust you anymore with idle chitchat.
I’ll wear a big sword in my belt, carry a boar-spear in my hand, and hide all my womanish fear in my heart.
Yes, sir.
Give me a kiss.
Are you backing away in fear?
Without doubt I’ve heard that.
I could make the same boast even if I had a pig as my mistress.
Yes, certainly.
But just be patient until we’ve calmed the masses, who are beside themselves with fear.
In his ignorant jealousy, he’ll totally misunderstand Cassio’s smiles, gestures, and jokes.—How are you, lieutenant?
A big blast of wind shook our fortifications.
I know the man a bit.
Have your wife attend to her, and bring them along as soon as you can.
Eighty ducats!
I’m not asking you to call her.
Caesar is in a sober mood.
I’ll take a look at your letter.
It’s pretty.
What’s wrong?
Charmian, did I ever love Caesar as much as this?
Yes, it is.
I’m not talking about proof yet.
Well sir, good night.
They’ll be here tomorrow or the next day.
Yes, Captain, but with this acknowledgement—that God fought for us.
I’m terribly sleepy.
Why should you fall into so deep a moan?
I won’t.
That way Antony will feel like he’s fighting his own men.
I will, sir.
Let me just ask her one question, and by your authority as her father, order her to answer truthfully.
Look at the stars, see how the floor of heaven is inlaid with small disks of bright gold.
If that man, who’s made up of conflicts, becomes musical, then there must be something wrong with the universe.
Gentlemen, go in there and grab him.
Oh-ho-ho, kid!
I’ll test it out.
But I won’t shed any of her blood or scar that beautiful skin, whiter than snow and smooth as the finest marble.
He would have?
All right, you’ve had your say, but we’ll let the forest judge whether or not you spoke wisely.
And for the sake of those you grieve for, do me a favor
What are you going to do?
When I reach the place he’s calling from, he disappears.
Oh, liars can look so honest!
I slept well, ate well, and was happy.
No, that I don’t remember.
In the meantime, think about how I can do you good and give you what you want.
But to tell you the truth, reason and love have very little to do with each other these days.
Let’s have explicit contracts drawn up to ensure that both sides keep their promises.
Sir Toby, I’ve got to be frank with you.
No, not like before.
Yes, they have.
You can’t go back into the house unless you want to fight with me—and if you’re willing to do that, you might as well just go and fight with him.
I’d better stop up my ears against this siren’s song.
My dagger, little nephew?
We’ll watch them starve to death first.
You lie, you disgusting tyrant.
This is the fool who lent out money without charging interest.
Let him come forward.
One more thing, sir.
Shouldn’t she just accept that?
I’ve shut the memory of your beautiful eyes out of my heart.
Time to buy myself a mirror and employ a few dozen tailors to dress me up in the current fashions.
Have the excavators stopped work?
Ask it something, Horatio.
How’s my nephew doing, noble lord of York?
This is what Calphurnia’s dream means.
You’ll know more about it later.
My lady, with your permission, this note authorizes me to give myself to you with a kiss.
Gentlemen, on to the bridal dinner.
For God’s sake, let me hear it.
Come on, brother!
My heart adores him, even though my tongue curses him.
Beat him up.
I’ll do it with all my heart.
I’ll have nothing to do with you.
Girls younger than she often marry and become happy mothers.
His eyes started glazing over around eight in the morning.
I don’t know.
You corrupt judge, why did you let her escape?
Ah, here comes my messenger.—What’s going on, you crazy spirit?
I was killed in the Capitol.
If she glares, I’ll say her brow is as clear as roses newly washed with morning dew.
What kind of woman is she?
If you’re not having sex with Desdemona tomorrow night, then I suggest you find some way to stab me in the back and kill me.
How are you doing, brother?
Lysander, say something!
If you won’t listen to reason, I’ll have to die.
Anyone who says you’re a man must not notice how young you are.
Is this the family tomb of Leonato?
He bids them good morning with a modest smile and calls
We want to hear the will.
Any obstacle or barrier to Claudio’s happiness will be like medicine to me.
But what a fool I am to stand here chatting when I should bid good morning to my bride and seal the bargain with a loving kiss.
Where is the villain, Edmund?
I sent him there, sir, but his crimes deserved a worse punishment.
I wish you were what I wanted you to be!
You have.
You were the prettiest baby I ever nursed.
Help!
Sir, I’m upset.
And no one eat any onions or garlic.
Are you really saying these things, or am I dreaming?
I lead a charmed life, which can’t be ended by anyone born from a woman.
How will we pass the time without some entertainment?    
Here comes the Duke now.
Our jailers will shrivel up with old age before they make us cry again.
Petruchio, let’s stand over here awhile.
Come on, you’re drunk.
This is all that’s left for me to do, but I won’t do it.
Every hour he comes out with some horrible new offense that puts us all on edge.
You can’t tell a story simply when it’s a lie.
Really, he won it from me once before in a dishonest game of dice.
To die, to sleep—to sleep, maybe to dream.
We’re all against what Caesar stands for, and there’s no blood in that.
We’ve finished our business.
That’s well spoken.
A soothsayer tells you to beware of March 15th.
I wish I knew what was in your heart.
I’m surprised you enjoy the company of this stupid troublemaker.
Arms, make your last embrace!
Oh, be quiet.
The king isn’t the one sending you to the Tower, Clarence.
It doesn’t matter where, so long as it’s not here.
No, come on, don’t make me play a woman.
What endeavor, Popillius?
Did he beg my pardon?
I’m finished, then.
I stand here with the law on my side.
He’s honest, he’s got to speak the truth.
My mistress,” I said.
I use it all the time, since it’s all that I have.
He may command me as my king, but you still have power over me as a relative.
You’re right.
At this very minute an old black ram is having sex with your little white lamb.
What’s this?
You might as well try to stab the air with your sword.
Let’s see how.
Why are you so far from home?
Sirs, take up the corpse.
That our grandmother’s soul could end up inhabiting a bird.
Oh, you excellent young man!
Though that must have been a pitiful sight, the ground looked beautiful.
Isn’t she a well-mannered young lady?
I didn’t, my lord.
It was yours, I swear.
Oh no, good Cassio!
You’re so neat and well put-together that you look like you love yourself more than anyone else.
You’re a senator!
But everything that lives is mortal, including the foolishness of love.
Halt.
Oh Dardanius!
Now, welcome, Kate.—And let everyone bear witness that here I kiss her as my sovereign queen.
Where are you, Death?
There’s my dagger  Put away your dagger.
I have to do these things before I have a chance to think about them.
You know the law.
Therefore my sadness is without limit.
Let the dying fire shine a glimmering light throughout the house.
That’s just how he is.
My husband!
I won’t give up this child for all of Fairyland.
I’m going to the Friar to find out his solution.
Now I realize your brother tried to kill your father not just because your brother is an evil man, but because your father deserved it by being wicked himself.
Oh, how awful that a lady who’s been rejected by one man should therefore be treated horribly by another one!
No, he’s in a place worse than hell.
If things are the way people tell me they are—and they’re only telling me this to warn me—then I have to say, you’re not conducting yourself with the self-restraint a daughter of mine should show.
I’d rather be a peddler.
He is coming.
Oh, this is wonderful, wonderful—just wonderful wonderful!
This is exactly how she always looks, and—I swear it—she is fast asleep.
We heard that once you were served eight wild boars roasted whole for breakfast—for only twelve people!
If you want to watch, follow me.
I’ll tell you what to do.
Here, take this piece of jewelry.
Please go.
Oh, for Pete’s sake!
Where did they disappear to?
What do you say?
Tell him a messenger has arrived from my master with good news.
Can he even get angry?
I swear on my life I won’t tell your secret.
Blow the trumpets.
Alas, you misunderstood everything!
Do promise, Kate, that you’ll do your French part to bring forth such a boy; and for my English half, take the word of a king and a bachelor.
If she won’t tell Benedick, someone else should.
The wolves have finished preying for the night, and look—the gentle dawn is rising, dappling the sleepy eastern sky with spots of light.
The Egyptian flagship, the  Gods and goddesses—the whole congregation of them!
Then certain ones.
He spends most of his time with the good, noble Claudio.
To which we all appeal.
Come break this up, Benvolio.
I’m glad Casca is with us.
Do you have desires?
As long as it’s honorable, you can be sure that I’ll let you use all my money and do everything I can to help you.
That was the limit for me.
This man looks like his business is urgent.
I don’t know where he’s staying, so if I told you he’s sleeping here or there, I’d be lying.
Oh, you villain, villain, you damned, smiling villain!
They couldn’t, they wouldn’t.
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed.
I’m glad about that.
Shall I stay in this dreary world, which is no better than a pigsty without you?
Murder’s always horrible, but this one was especially horrible, weird, and unnatural.
People who die of it seldom or never recover.
I want to measure the extent of your love, to see how far it stretches.
Thank you, dear Nurse.
While I stood spellbound, messengers from the king arrived and greeted me as the thane of Cawdor, which is precisely how the weird sisters had saluted me before calling me ’the future king!
Both of which, master constable— You have.
What I deserve is that you treat me like a queen, and what you deserve is to act like my subjects.
My husband will save me.
Now I’ll go inside and write out a secret order to keep Clarence’s brats out of sight and to forbid anyone whatsoever from seeing King Edward’s sons.
Get information from her.
My liege.
Your eyes look like they’ve sunk into your head.
Some people will laugh at anything, and others are so grouchy they won’t even crack a smile when they hear something hysterically funny.
I mean when I wore it at your daughter’s wedding.
Quiet!
It may be, it certainly may be.
Do you think I would live a life of jealousy, tormented by new suspicions every hour?
Even if it’s not better, your first marriage is over.
Amen.
Oh, noble prince, I can tell you everything about the unfortunate circumstances of this deadly fight.
Okay, but when?
Show me.
He’s a proper count, that Count Sugarplum, a sweet gentleman, for sure!
But I’ll deliver Sir Andrew’s challenge by word of mouth, describing Sir Andrew as courageous in battle and convincing the young gentleman that Sir Andrew is furious, impetuous, and a skilled fighter (he’ll believe me because he’s young).
You have a noble wife who is much more beautiful than any other woman in this declining age.
There’s no darkness except ignorance, and you’re more ignorant than the Egyptians during the plague of fog.
How can you stand there shamelessly talking about me and Hippolyta, when you know that I know about your love for Theseus?
Here is the cap your Worship ordered.
You are welcome here, sister.
It looks that way.
Dear Sir Toby, don’t do anything rash tonight.
I’m being gentle with you, because I’m one of those good-hearted people who are polite to the devil himself.
Leave out the water.
You will.
I think a story like that would win my own daughter over.
Once I’ve put my rackets to these balls, I’ll play a set in France, God willing, that will knock his father’s crown right out of the court.
You haven’t seen him since?
He said he would deny that he wrote his letter?
And don’t lie.
Oh, I’d kill that bastard Cassio forty thousand times if I could!
Dear God, thank you!
Don’t say anything bad about wine anymore.
My thanes and kinsmen, I name you all earls, the first earls that Scotland has ever had.
You are building your nest in 
Come on, sir, please.
You were a cold crumb on dead Julius Caesar’s plate when I met you.
This is old Ninny’s tomb.
How do you do, sir.
What an ogre you are to slander someone you don’t know, and who doesn’t know you!
Well, Syracusian, tell us–briefly–why you left your hometown and came to Ephesus.
Passionate”?
That’s our offer.
Then the Jew must show you mercy.
When I said that, I was angry too.
A horse, a horse, I’d give my kingdom for a horse!
Get rid of half your knights and go back to spend the rest of your month with my sister.
Yes, or to wear cosmetics?
When you free your children from the sword, your grandchildren will repay you in your old age.
I was talking to a petitioner here just now, someone who’s suffering from your anger.
But now I’ll grit my teeth and kill anyone who tries to stop me.
So you’re the only one who could play Pyramus.
I’ll pick berries for you.
He’s certainly crossed the river Somme.
Listen, hussy—is this man one of your customers?
I was about to swear that I loved you.
I’m afraid he will.
I’ll make her come right away, I promise you.
It’s dinnertime, my lord.
Why do you say that?
But let me place this wreath on your head.
He’s been killed.
Go, daughter.
Go get me a crow.
I know you are loyal and honorable.
I didn’t have the heart to say no to him.
Calphurnia, my wife, is keeping me at home.
Call yourself your own sister, because I want you.
And I hope he’s studying his music like he’s supposed to.
I’ll never believe a madman until I can see his brains.
Yes, if Messala recommends me to you.
Welcome, dear madam.
It doesn’t need to be witty as long as it’s eloquent and imaginative.
He is the son and heir of old Tiberio.
But don’t be too tame, either—let your good sense guide you.
Well, you know he sometimes walks here in the lobby for four hours at a time.
That’s him.
Here they come.
No, I’ll prove it with airtight evidence and logical argument.
Then young men love with their eyes, not with their hearts.
Montjoy.
Whatever seems best to you.
Whether it’s even or odd, of all the days in the year, on the night of Lammas Eve, she’ll be fourteen.
He rushed away on serious business.
Here’s the money you wanted, master.
Is it good news?
Is it “chaste in word and action”?
My mistress here lies murdered in her bed— No, heaven forbid!
It would be inappropriate—dangerous, even—for me to be seen working against the Moor, as I would if I stayed.
Goodbye.
Oh, that devious Egyptian spirit!
What you told me it haunts me like a nightmare—he’s got my handkerchief!
Fury, Fury!—Get over there, Tyrant, there.
He ate at my house, but that doesn’t make me nervous.
If only that were all it is— It is, I promise.
Well, I think that even if it weren’t on record, the truth would be remembered from one generation to the next—all the way to Doomsday.
Katherine the shrew!” That’s the worst thing you can call a young woman.
No, I’ll recite it for you right now
Excellent!
He looks like someone with a strange tale to tell.
Are you rich?
That’s music to my ears.
Do you love me?
The English army, sir.
Most powerful lord, my mistress Cleopatra sent me to you.
Come, sweet Audrey.
So the candle went out and now we’re all in the dark.
I know it’s foolish to be so much in love, but I can’t help it.
He must do this, or I’ll recant the pardon I just delivered.
And why did you come?
I want you to live, since to me, death is happiness.
Amen.
Bring his will here, and we’ll figure out a way to reduce his bequests to the people.
There’s other work for you to do.
I have to stop you, Cimber.
Who are you?
A rotten, foolish monster.
What, you look amused.
I must admit your offer is the best.
I’ll do everything I can for you, Cassio.
The ground feels flat to me.
The English army is near, led by Malcolm, his uncle Siward, and the good Macduff.
Who do you obey here?
She could even what?
They’re in the heat of passion; they simply have to be together.
Good.—Now come, Ariel!
It orders me to hand the noble duke of Clarence over to you.
Clearly, men should not go out walking too late!
Once I’m there, I won’t need a guide anymore.
I’ve got some business to take care of.
Oh yes—to smell  This is Signor Antonio.  
Nurse, will you come with me to my closet and help me pick out the clothes and the jewelry I’ll need to wear tomorrow?
Hello, beautiful Helena!
How many people are cowards at heart but wear beards like Hercules or Mars, the god of war?
You’re like one of those guys who walks into a bar, slams his sword on the table, and then says, “I pray I never have to use you.” By the time he orders his second drink, he pulls his sword on the bartender for no reason at all.
I curse her.
Trust me, you could slide all the way from my shoulder to my heel taking no more of a running start than the distance between my head and my neck.
And what is this useless ceremony of kings?
But fire also gives off light, and fire will burn you.
My liege, this was my glove.
I’ll kill him!
Murder!
Isn’t every living thing condemning her?
Oh, chest, obey me!
I pity England, but not myself.
Denmark’s a prison.
If you can think of a more awful title, I’ll call her that.
Lady Beatrice is angry with you.
Don’t you know, master, that some men’s best qualities do them in?
Oh, monster, we know secondhand clothes when we see them.— Take off that gown, Trinculo.
Merciful powers, keep away the nightmares that plague me when I rest!
But don’t I have good reason to cry?
When I could see, I didn’t always see clearly.
Can a man do it?
What you’re doing is the way to make her scorn you continually.
Pretty, Cupid-like boys stood on either side of her, smiling and cooling her with multicolored fans, which seemed to fan the flames in her cheeks even as they cooled them, undoing what they did.
But excuse me,  Yes, I’m talking about Launcelot, sir.
Hello there, good sirs.
I’m not staying here to argue anymore.
What is this news about?
This is a guy who’s been praised for his honest bluntness, and who now insolently pretends to be plainspoken and twists the natural meanings of words.
He’s his mother’s child from head to toe.
This one talks about how Roderigo should kill Cassio.
What woman’s servant?
Dear sister, it’s unfair to me—and unfair to yourself—to turn me into a slave.
I wish she were in heaven so she could appeal to some power to make this dog Jew change his mind.
Do you mean to say that the duke has abandoned the glamorous court to live as a monk?
We’ll speak again tomorrow.
In these less dainty times, you’re not breaking the laws of sanctuary to seize him.
Oh, let me remember what happened to Hastings and hurry to 
When we love our job we get up early and go to it joyfully.
That with a series of legal writs, Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus have put a hundred senators to death.
Yes, ma'am.
He’s made me a Christian.
Don’t I tell you in the clearest terms that I do not and cannot love you?
Is that you, wife?
The problem is that they have to compete with a group of children who yell out their lines and receive outrageous applause for it.
And he challenged you to a duel?
It’s his handwriting, my lord, but I hope he didn’t mean what he wrote.
Let them put fear in your heart.
Did you think I was talking about sex?
As long as they didn’t do anything, it would only be a minor sin.
I knew him when he would’ve walked ten miles to see a well-crafted suit of armor; now he spends ten nights awake in his room designing himself a fancy new jacket.
Oh, be quiet.
How old are you?
I want my bond, so stop talking.
Goodbye.
No?
If you can’t answer it— Go ahead!
She is our principal demand—one of the first points of the treaty.
No, don’t hit him, lieutenant!
Give our officers notice of our intentions.
Good Enobarbus, you would be doing a very good thing if you advised your captain to speak calmly and quietly.
Very soon, because you want it.
I would have thought she was invincible against any assault of love.
The thane of Cawdor has lost what the noble Macbeth has won.
Are you going riding this afternoon?
Yes, good fool.
But where’s the money?
Not a second more.
What handkerchief?
I tried to play games with God, and he turned my fake prayer on my head, giving me for real what I’d asked for as a joke.
I mean knock his brains out, so he can’t take Othello’s place.
Please give me that.
I, sir, am Dromio.
But gentle heavens, don’t keep me waiting.
Will it never be morning?
I’ll call you a minstrel.
Thanks, Rosencrantz and worthy Guildenstern.
I said she was.
Oh, you  If you want to praise Caesar, just say his name—that’s all the praise that’s necessary.
I hope you have good weather to set your mind at ease.
I should be ridiculed if I were offended so easily—and laughed at even more for speaking of you disrespectfully, when I had no reason to speak of you at all. 
May the gods destroy you!
There was no story, my lord.
It’s no use!
What are you waiting for, lords of France?
Two of the brightest stars in the whole sky had to go away on business, and they’re asking her eyes to twinkle in their places until they return.
Here, at your service.
He is a noble prisoner!
I’ll be at your service.
Shylock, are you listening?
And his voice is the paramour of sweetness.
But if you didn’t know about it, then you were wrong to get mad at us.
You all know this cloak.
I might as well go before the King of France, who took my youngest daughter without a dowry, kneel before his throne, and beg him to give me a tiny pension to stay alive.
Are you Sebastian?
I’ll leave you now.
Ah, he got you back, Benedick!
You saw eternity in my lips and eyes, and happiness in the arch of my eyebrows.
Let’s see here.
Look!
She has betrayed me and shall die.
I wish you all the comfort that such a dark night as this can offer, noble father-in-law.
I can’t love him.
Claudio, I’m telling you right to your face that you have wronged me and my innocent child.
Tell me where you live.
Do you like pictures?
My own safety is the only important thing now.
Lucius!
May a plague strike both your families!
Lovely Beatrice, I thank you for taking the pains to tell me that.
Dreams are a sign of ambition, since ambition is nothing more than the shadow of a dream.
Read the will!
Borachio.
I’ll get there.
You are completely wrong about this king.
Don’t harp on that point, madam—it’s past.
After you.
Oh, I wish I was the glove on that hand so that I could touch that cheek.
And you’re not to utter a syllable of Tranio’s name.
Nurse, where’s my daughter?
Why do you need twenty-five knights, or ten, or even five, when you’re staying in a house with a staff of double that at your service?
This island belongs to me because Sycorax, my mother, left it to me.
What is your news?
Is he dead?
Come with me.
Very wise.
I certainly do have him, but I wouldn’t advise you to touch him.
Women, dress me like a queen.
That’s where hell is, and darkness, and fires and stench!
It is.
murder!
Tell me, so I can cut it out of myself. 
He’s dead.
Your love says, like an honorable gentleman, who is courteous, kind, handsome, and, I believe, virtuous— where is your mother?
Hey!
But taste my story, and relish it by paying attention.
Tell her. 
Why, you silly man!
It’s still warm from the cut.
We shouldn’t expect men to be perfect, or for them to be as polite as on the weddingday.
If you really feel that way, then I hope you won’t kill me.
The watchdogs bark.
It’s Richard who sent us here to slaughter you.
His military ability is double that of the other two.
Besides, there’s no king, however pure his cause, who, if it comes to a trial by combat, can rely on using completely blameless soldiers.
And, in fact, I think they’re meeting together right now.
Oh, in this love, you love your child so badly, that you go mad, even though she is in heaven.
I probably am too young for you.
All right, Friar Francis, let’s keep this short.
It’s true.
Who am I, sir?
Welcome, welcome to all of you.
Look, it’s going away.
I didn’t hear it.
Isn’t that him?
Give it to me!
On me, though I am barely half the man that Edward was?
Do you have permission to go out and take confession today?
This is all quite pleasant.
About as long as it would take someone to count slowly to a hundred.
Good-bye.
Do you have your answer yet?
It’s time to leave.
No, but Beatrice— Sweet Hero, she’s been wronged, she’s been slandered, she’s been ruined.
Say anything.
It’s true, my lord.
Yes, she did tell us.
Is Cassius nearby?
Give me a cup of wine.
And I know that by now they’re waiting for me on the porch outside Pompey’s theater.
It’s my duty, sir.
Today I’m going to get what I said I wished would happen to me if I was ever false to King Edward’s children or his wife’s allies.
We need more help!
So will I.
Yes, on land you do outnumber me.
It sang about my crimes.
Tell her we mean her no disrespect.
Give him this letter.
I just beg death to wait awhile, until I place the last of our many thousands of kisses on your lips.
The things she has shamelessly hurled on me are beyond imagination.
It doesn’t matter how I am
How are you, your highness?
Good night then, Casca.
I have promissory notes from Florence that I have to deliver.
Eat your dinner and pay no attention to him.
I hope you’ll be a good father to me now.
But tell us, did you hear anything about Antonio’s loss at sea?
Okay, now I’m dead.
Obey your parents, keep your word, don’t swear, don’t sleep with another man’s wife, and don’t covet flashy clothes.
When we’re in love, we don’t see with our eyes but with our minds.
I’ll show you how.
These lords seem so astonished that they’ve lost their use of reason and can hardly believe what they see with their own eyes.—But whatever the reason for your losing your senses, you can know for sure that I’m Prospero, that same duke who was kicked out of Milan and landed on this same island where you landed, and became the lord of it.
You’d give the moon a shove if it got stuck five weeks in its orbit.
You’ll live in luxury with Gremio.
We’ll write it in alternating eight- and six-syllable lines, just like in a ballad.
Let’s do that, Lysander.
Oh sweet mistress, speak!
What’s your answer?
A wonderful miracle!  
Where’s the passage of holy scripture that you’re basing your sermon on?
In any case, Antonio assured the duke they weren’t with Bassanio on his ship.
So go and put your stamp on the girl.
Exactly right.
They are crying and moaning over Tybalt’s corpse.
Yes, really.
Go, Pindarus, climb a little higher on this hill.
Therefore tell me the Dauphin’s mind frankly and without constraint.
The more I pray, the less I get out of it.
I think I’m getting delirious.
I wish I were something better, because right now I’m a big fool.
Well, then it will be dry.
Sit down, Jessica.
You’ve got it wrong, old man.
I don’t know what to say.
I gave it to Dromio, who rushed in for it.
Good-bye.
Give me another horse!
His arrival fits perfectly into my plan.
In that case you should sleep.
Look, here comes the fool.
That only proves how inexperienced you are.
Now everyone be seated, as this is the part where we sit and chat as well as eat.
That was a likely story, that you found it in your room and didn’t know who it belonged to.
Is there anything inaccurate in that?
I hope they don’t attack us now.
Yes, and I’ll give it to him for free.
Before I could break up the fight, Tybalt was killed.
I’ll do so.
But look, even if my dishes are poor, eat them with my best wishes.
Quiet!
On the way, we came across my wife, her sister, and their gang of vile associates.
And is “pig” not the same as “great,” may I ask?
Look!
Benvolio is part of the Montague family.
I almost feel you.
I’ll conjure him as if I were summoning a spirit.
Yes, and be wise.
Let thunder flatten the spherical world, crack open all the molds from which nature forms human beings, and spill all the seeds from which ungrateful humans grow!
Come on in, tailor.
And this is why your servants hang their heads in sorrow!
Well, he keeps the devil away as well as a man can in his situation.
No, come back, Kate.
Young man, something’s wrong if you’re getting out of bed this early.
Early in the morning I’ll go visit Desdemona and plead my case.
Let’s have him land and solemnly proceed to London.
You won’t be seeing anything.—Hold his chair still, men.—I’m going to put my foot on his eyes.
My granddaughter, with her kind aunt, the duchess of Gloucester, leading her by the hand?
Well, there you go.
That’s enough.
The other girl did not love me.
Since it’s drizzling, stand under this overhang with me and, like a true drunk, I’ll tell you everything.
Yes.
Be happy.
Orsino, this is the same Antonio who took the 
You’ve done a good job, that other men can attribute their murders to you!
No, my lord, unless I could have another husband for the work week.
Let me love him because he deserves it, and you can love him because I do.
Is the building of your love already in ruins?
I am glad he’s coming, however he’s dressed.
Give my love to my kind husband.
But my dear, when I said I was worth nothing, I was actually bragging—I should’ve said that I was worse than nothing.
If I extinguish the candle, I can light it again if I regret it.
But prepare yourself for some unpleasantness.
Let them come—I don’t care.
Oh, please don’t swear, my lord of Buckingham.
The duke’s trumpets.
He smiled and said, “The better for us.” He’s right, and that’s how it is.
Don’t provoke them to battle until we have finished at sea.
I will be brief because I’m not going to live long enough to tell a boring story.
Caesar, beware of Brutus.
God give him health.
The more you joke about it, the more clearly I feel how serious it is!
He’ll be done in time.
I’ve noticed that they always like to settle and mate where the air is the nicest.
No, my dearest love, I wouldn’t cheat you for the whole world.
Know that I am Brutus!
I give you a sister whom I love more than a brother ever loved any sister.
What are you talking about?
Let’s move again, my friends.
But, look, poor me, what a terrible tragedy is here!
Most formidable Queen!
I know his soul’s in heaven, fool.
Take this.
My sweet, so do I.
I’m a surgeon to old shoes.
I want to do a little good despite my evil nature.
I wish I could repay this happy news with good news of my own.
You are welcome, sir.
Isn’t that true?
Maria, our lady wants you.
Oh, the poor bird.
Oh, I could weep my soul right out of myself!
On, on, you noblest Englishmen, descended as you are from battle-tested fathers, fathers who, like so many Alexander the Greats, have fought in these regions from morning until night, sheathing their swords only when there was no one left to fight.
If I didn’t have a good reason to do this, damn me to the very bottom of hell.
Tell him to gather together the greatest army he can muster in a hurry and meet me right away at Salisbury.
If I don’t answer, perhaps you’ll think I’m accepting the heavy responsibility you foolishly want to impose on me.
How did you like the young German, the duke of Saxony’s nephew?
I demand to be satisfied.
No, please, I beg your Majesty.
I assure your majesty I’m only doing my duty both to my God and my good king. 
He’s going senile.
I don’t understand—how should I answer that?
I swam ashore like a duck.
How are you, madam?
Oh, how wonderful to see you!
My lord, I have some mementos of yours that I’ve been meaning to give back to you for a long time now.
It shall be seven o'clock before I get on my horse.
I have no doubt he got ashore alive.
Don’t wrong her birth.
Come away with me.
Put your sword away.
Ratcliffe, my lord, it’s me.
Give me a goblet.—Hamlet, this pearl’s yours.
Of all places, I don’t like the 
Meet me at the palace as soon as possible.
Do so, good Messala.
Make room for Antony, most noble Antony!
You call this sneering?
When you just want to eat, it’s better to do that at home.
And maybe a third?
Ha!
They have fully sixty thousand fighting men.
Yes, very well, sir.
The Tower’s chaplain has buried them, but to tell you the truth, I don’t know where.
There’s meaning in your snoring.
Come on.
Amen.
Taste your legs, sir.
They would like me to be as familiar with men’s pockets as their gloves and handkerchiefs, which goes against my manhood, because to take something from another’s pocket and put it into my own is plain stealing.
I only need to show your sword to Caesar and tell him about your death to get into his good favor.
If you’ve offended him, I’ll fight you.
We’ll maintain that she died the instant she was accused, and everyone who hears this will grieve for her, pity her, and excuse her actions.
Oh, darling Phoebe, if you ever fall in love with some fresh face, then you’ll know about the invisible wounds that love’s sharp arrows can make.
Why are you crying?
But I won’t sleep till I get back.
If she welcomes him and his hundred knights after I’ve shown how inappropriately he’s behaved— Here, ma'am.
Really, the priest was good enough, no matter what that old guy said.
After a brief time—as he is a strong, brave man—
Do you like me, Kate?
We’re ruined, lady, we’re ruined!
Well, because I saw your niece Olivia treat the count’s messenger better than she’s ever treated me.
Quiet, quiet!
Before I hear him, I want to decide some important issues that are on my mind concerning my throne and France.
Our noblemen are battling bravely.
Now, now, both of you gentlemen!
Yes, sir.
I pay you because you’re poor, not because you want me to buy this.    
He does nothing but frown, as if he wants to say, “If you don’t want me, I don’t care.” He doesn’t even smile when he hears funny stories.
Why, sir, I told you an hour ago that the good ship  This fellow’s gone mad, and so have I. We’re in some kind of dream world.
What, we’re going to die?
A lioness gave birth in the streets, and graves cracked open and thrust out their dead.
Noble friends, let’s kill him boldly but not with anger.
With this marriage, all the petty jealousies that now seem huge, and all the great fears that are dangerous in themselves, would disappear.
Only God knows when we’ll meet again.
But with you it’s different.
I’ll have glory in this losing day—more than Octavius and Mark Antony will gain by their foul conquest.
I’ll also wear this in my cap.
The things I’m saying are fair and honest.
I’m speaking purely in analogies and comparisons.
Cobble you, sir.
You’re my lieutenant now.
Who’s calling me?
I’m in so much trouble with my niece that it wouldn’t be safe to let this prank go to its conclusion.
Only one man in ten thousand is good in this world.
This tyrant, whose mere name is so awful it hurts us to say it, was once considered an honest man.
Fine, thank you.
Sometimes all I want to do is see plays and go out dancing.
I look forward to that present.
Oh please, go somewhere else to blab your nonsense.
Hello!
I’m going.
All the most beautiful paintings Are black when compared to Rosalind.
Who am I then?
He’s my prisoner.
Don’t I deserve more than this?
Those are her orders.
Yes, alright, go, I say, and bring him here.
All right, we’ll have a prologue then.
You’ll never hear from the herald again.
Come, explain.
Where is Malvolio?
Our country weeps, it bleeds, and each day a fresh cut is added to her wounds.
I hear my father coming.
I think he really is angry.
But really, are you the one who’s been hanging on the trees those poems that speak so admiringly of Rosalind?
You won’t be wasting your time, because I really can sing and talk to him about many different kinds of music, so he’ll be happy to have me in his service.
He’s too good to have any compassion for you.
You’re making a terrible racket out here!
I know they’re in Rome together, hoping for Antony to return.
Your threats are no stronger than her whining.—Helena, I love you.
Large and increasing.
I won’t say anything negative about what he might be.
Well, then he must be alive.
Don’t talk back to me.
Get up.
In Spain, Caesar had a fever, and it made him shake.
If everyone here knows us but we don’t know anybody, it’s time, I think, for us to pack our bags and take off.
Don’t say “banishment.” From now on, you are banished from Verona.
I will, sir.
Let it go up to heaven.
Remain calm until midnight, and then you’ll see what the trouble is.
I beg you to pay a visit right away to my son, who’s changed too much.
I smile and think, “Thank goodness the wind doesn’t flatter me
How did you tolerate prison?
Tomorrow night, when the moon shines on the water and decorates the grass with tiny beads of pearly light (the time of night that always hides runaway lovers), we plan to sneak out of Athens.  
Give me my fishing rod.
Good job, my little one.
What if I had a rat in my house, and I felt like paying ten thousand ducats to have it exterminated?
What does she say, madam interpreter?
If I ever have to ask you for something that will put your luck to the test, it’ll be something difficult and terrible.
That’s it.
You killed my child.
The name suits your fierceness.
Get away from me!
What an idiotic place this world is.
I’ve got the whole barrel, man.
Sir Toby would bet a fortune that I’m not smart, but he wouldn’t bet two cents that you’re not a fool.
As a child, he took such a long time to grow up that, according to his rule, he should have grown up into a gracious adult.
If you care about your health, you won’t push me any further.
Though this island may appear desolate—  
Anything that’s mended is only patched up.
Speak, if you can.
You always loved to tell me I couldn’t do anything without being told.
I thought the clouds were talking to me, the winds were singing to me, and the thunder, like an awful organ pipe, roared Prospero’s name.
Sir Toby Belch!
Someday you can get revenge.—Oh, you bastard!
It is not courteous, you know, to assume you know my meaning before I’ve finished talking.
I am the son of Marcus Cato!
I tell you, you’ve ruined her gown.
Farewell.
It’s still waving to me.
Boatswain!
I beg you, daughter, don’t make me crazy.
Absolutely everything.
Oh, don’t touch me.
Tybalt is lying over there.  
I’m coming, my lord.
Ariel, go order my goblin servants to make these fellows' bones ache, give them muscle cramps all over, and give them more bruises than leopards have spots.
It would be wrong for me to think poorly of my grandmother.
God forbid he wants to challenge me!
Didn’t I use to have four or five women taking care of me?
Then you are damned.
I know it’s the sun that shines so bright.
Is that how the law sees it?
That’ll keep them from being afraid.
Why are you bothering this poor man!
Give my answer to them both.
I don’t know him.
It’s a cup, closed in my true love’s hand?
What, here in the middle of the street?
No, I must let them find me.
Show him and make him grieve.
You’ve won.
Do I, sir?
Ask this man’s forgiveness, love him, and accept his offer.
You have to stop talking like this.
Help me, help me!
Away with the doddering fool!
I’m not scared of you.
Come on.
You know why I think so?
That will tell you a lot.
Loss upon loss!
He begs you to spare his life.
I think you’re an ass.
Sure, or anything else you show him.
Stay where you are.
Dolabella!
But it’s dangerous to make him try to make sense of the time he lost.
When Jacob took care of his uncle Laban’s sheep—Jacob was the heir to his grandfather Abraham’s birthright, because his mother cleverly arranged for her husband Isaac to make Jacob his heir— What’s your point?
Do you want to get married, fool?
Oh, my reputation, Iago, my reputation!
Hurry, go!
Curse the day!
Do you know me?
But you see my finger doesn’t have the ring on it.
You seem like a good judge.
I do.
I hope poisonous swampy fog covers her face and ruins her complexion!
Please forgive me as I forgive you, Hamlet.
You’re naughty.
Who can tell me who I am?
Yes, my lord.
Where’s he going?
You were worn with honor. 
Help!
Halt!
Welcome.
Oh, these fools!
Remove your armor, Eros.
What you say is true.
When will there be another like him?
May God choose you to receive his grace.
A pretty pathetic monster.
Kate, my wooing is fit for your understanding
Well, do whatever you think best.
Or Tuesday noon or at night, or Wednesday morning.
I am the duke who loved your father.
What power can rein in promiscuous evil once it’s gotten rolling?
How dare I?
I’ll flatter anyone who flatters me—though what I’ve accomplished on land cannot be denied.
Let me see it.
He sees himself in my two eyes, so there’s two of him.
Oh Setebos, these are handsome spirits!
Fulvia’s death and the pressing concerns related to it are not the only reasons I am eager to go; friends in Rome have also sent many letters advising my return.
Therefore, the fact that you’re awake this early tells me you’ve been upset with some anxiety.
That’s what the Prince and my fiancé say.
I ask you, if you have a grudge against me, to kill me now, while your stained hands still reek of blood.
Why are you calling me “love”?
Noble Brutus has mounted the platform.
I hope you think I’m faithful to you.
Yes, and that’s a serious failing.
The king will be offended to find out that his messenger is so badly treated.
Signior Benedick!
Where are the evil men who started this fight?
I wish I knew what is happening.
He’ll just turn it into a joke and torment the poor woman even more.
I’ve never heard of that.
When the forked blue lightning seemed to break open the sky, I put myself right where I thought it would hit.
Yes, here it is.
I swear— By nothing, because this is no oath.
What, are you busy?
If you want to come have dinner with me, you can.
Let them judge us however they please.
I’m done for in this world, I believe.
You’re serious enough to know not to play games with Satan.
And look, here’s Publius, come to fetch me.
Let’s hope we never need your help for anything.
No matter what you say, my father is not dead.
Someone who was always near you.
Would raise babies and clip coupons.
Hail, King of Scotland!
I don’t want her.
No, most likely.
We shouldn’t have too big a celebration—we can invite a friend or two.
I’ll listen to Brutus.
But what if my answer’s no?
Wait for mine, sweet soul.
Then, like prophets, they named him the father to a line of kings.
The best news of all is that we’ve located our king and our men.
Farewell, old man.
And how do you like Lord Bassanio’s wife?
Okay, who does it trot for?
Oh, you’re just going to talk about banishment again.
Tell me, rainbow, do you know if either Venus, the goddess of love, or her son, Cupid, is accompanying Queen Juno?
Come on, let’s put him in a dark room and tie him up.
Can’t what, my lord?
If you forgive us, we’ll make everything all right.
Give me your first, Mr. Mustardseed.
I’ll think over what you’ve said, I’ll listen patiently to whatever else you have to say, and I’ll find a good time for us to discuss further such weighty matters.
And did you leave him like this?
And you’re my husband, right?
No, a whole share for me.
Yes, you’re absolutely right about how worthy Brutus is and how much we need him.
You agree now that we’re not imagining this, don’t you?
Come, come away.
Oh, Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
By my father’s death— Your life has dishonored his death.
Just a bit of my dry humor, sir.
If I could colonize this island, my lord— He’d cultivate weeds on it.
I’ll get back at him another way.
Do the deed that will make this island yours forever, and will make me, Caliban, your worshipful foot-licker.
Oh Portia, these are some of the worst words that ever stained a piece of paper.
And does she have to die for this?
But she is wise.
But are they all safe, Ariel?
You’ve pretended to be in love with her, singing fake love songs softly at her window by moonlight, and you’ve captured her imagination by giving her locks of your hair, rings, toys, trinkets, knickknacks, little presents, flowers, and candies—things that can really influence an impressionable young person.
Come, let’s have one more extravagant night.
I didn’t take any more pains bringing this message than you took pains in thanking me.
We only drink toasts to my niece.
Unleash the dogs in the western valley.
But I’ll punish them thoroughly.
Next time I’ll give you nothing for something.
We’re here to say “amen” to that.
I’m awkward in my speech and I’m not a smooth talker.
In that case, he’s more obliged to you than I am.
I was just knocking to see if anyone was home.
Look over your lines again.
He’s a devil, a born devil, who can never be trained.
Please, hurry.                    
I will, my lord.
A man’s virtues will always show themselves, and that’s the end of that.
I’ve been stripped of everything, betrayed.
What are you doing, wearing your best clothes?
Why are the branches still living when the root is gone?
No, I’ll walk right next to you, side by side.
Go immediately, and do exactly as I wrote down.
Here’s some money for you.
Officer, I’ll take the responsibility from you, and the blame too.
Maybe he’s not feeling well.
It’s been longer, it’s been longer.
Then we’ll go out, even to the marketplace, and, waving our bloody swords over our heads, let’s cry, “Peace, freedom, and liberty!” Kneel then, and wash.
Get somebody strong to carry him out of here.
Yes, it’s William, sir.
Dearest Olivia— What do you have to say for yourself, Cesario?—My lord, please— My lord wants to speak.
Good-bye!
Please call him and tell him to come back here.
Indeed, my lord.
I won’t answer that.
Hooray!
What would you like, sir?
The humiliation that the king is suffering now will be revenged thoroughly.
You’re doing the right thing.
He was my friend, he was faithful and just to me.
A crow without feathers?
She’s still at the monastery, kneeling and praying for a happy marriage.
It’s like half your soul’s been ripped out.
Even my tears burn me like molten lead.
But as far as I can tell, people with too much suffer as much as people with nothing.
They say Gloucester’s bastard son is.
He said she was unfaithful?
And on their graves, I trust, the story of this day’s work will be written in brass.
That is the key to long-lasting love.
I’ll write to my stepson Richmond on your behalf, so that he’ll meet you on the way.
What do you have to say to me now?
My mistress and her sister are waiting for you.
What’s her name?
It was a bit short, my lord.
Goneril, you aren’t worth the dust the wind blows in your face.
Close, soft eyes.
Do what he says, William.
Excuse me?
Swear by her foot, so she can stamp out the oath.
She’s always talking when I want to sleep.
I tell you, Charles, he’s the stubbornest young fellow in France
Your life insurance?
She’s the devil.
Watch over Signior Leonato’s house; with the wedding being held there tomorrow, there’s a great to-do there tonight.
Tell him, if he comes here, I’ll explain everything to him and, on my word, he’ll leave unharmed.
He drinks like this every night before he goes to sleep.
Be quick.
A sense of security opens the door to conspiracy.
Is he dead?
You never heard of the Centaur?
Sit down and eat, and welcome to our table.
I’ll go get my sister and see what she thinks.
Well, did you think about what I said?
Good morning, my noble lord.
No sir, trust me, I do not.
Come on, let’s get to the banquet.
But if you’d be willing to shoot another arrow the same way you shot the first, I’ll watch your arrow more carefully this time.
Good night.
Yes, I did, my lord.
Yes, very bad.
So you’ll go to hell?
I assure you, sir, there’s nothing to be afraid of.
Tell him that the mayor, some citizens, and I have come to confer with his grace in matters of great importance concerning the general good.
He’s waiting nearby to find out if you’ll invite him in.
My husband!
Oh, why is this so?
Please, Horatio, go with him.  
How can you top that?
Yes, they’re spirits that I’ve called out of their prisons to perform my whims.
All ladies love me, except you.
And isn’t your husband an honorable man?
You bring your cauldrons, your spells, your charms, and everything else.
I scolded you for obsessing about her, not for loving her, my student.
My own house, good lady.
A prison like that would give me enough liberty.  
That’s the way to do it!
Were these things we’re talking about really here?
Who’s sleeping in the second chamber?
Another case
I was born as free as Caesar.
You’re bothering me.
I don’t think so.
They shouted three times.
Who put my servant in the stocks?
It’s cheap and nasty!
Well, get out of here then!
Has it come to this?
Don’t let that lawyer ever come near my house!
So the fool follows you.
It is written that shoemakers and tailors should play with each others' tools, that fisherman should play with paints, and painters should play with with fishing nets.
We can’t all be masters, and not all masters should be followed.
Well, brighter lights always dim the smaller ones.
Give me your hand, Messala.
What should I swear by?
I know that my lady’s going to end up hitting him.
Because if that’s the case, I will tell you a plan that will get rid of your enemy and bring you closer to me.
Leave them alone until he sets off home, and then follow him.
This is a miracle, if you talk of miracles.
Stay here.
Brother John Bates, isn’t that dawn breaking over there?
And if our navy wins tomorrow, no doubt our army will do their part.
Don’t you recognize me, father?
My darling, when I gave my love to you, I told you that all the wealth I had ran within my veins—that I have noble blood, but no money.
She’ll find out soon enough by one of our messengers how respectfully and kindly we plan to treat her.
I never—oh, what a mistake!—revealed myself to him until half an hour ago, when I was in my armor.
King Edward was going to marry Lady Lucy—your mother can vouch for that—and then he was betrothed to Bona, the King of France’s sister-in-law.
Yes, making a big fuss.
The source from which your royal blood comes has been stopped.
Therefore you must run, noble Cassius.
Are you his friend?
As for this slave, Iago, if we can think of any torture that will hurt him a lot but keep him alive a long time, he’ll have it.
Why do you complain about your birth, the heavens, and the earth?
Your grief should not be equal to his worth, because then your sorrow would never end.
Yes, my lord, if you would like.
Instead, lend it to me as your enemy.
You must be the one who laughs when boys or women tell you their dreams.
It’s strange, strange.
I’m a carpenter, sir.
Now, if you occupy some place in the list of men that isn’t down at the very bottom, tell me.
The gods are fair, and they use our little vices to punish us.
What do you think of his neighbor, the Scottish lord?
Most royal sir, Fleance has escaped.
But listen, Charmian.
But come, my lord, let’s go.
A daughter?
Will you abandon her?
That’s no lie.
That’s more than we know.
Sadness over my son’s exile stopped her breath.
And as for what I promised to you, I’m as good as my word.
Oh, you evil woman!
Blab my nonsense?
I just did my duty, sir.
I’m everywhere.
Take a tip from me, then.
Is the single man lucky, then?
Within an hour, one of my men will come to you behind the abbey wall and give you a rope ladder.
So what do you say to my suit?
If Echo were as fast, he would be worth a dozen like Belman.
This is a love token from some other slut, and you want me to copy its pattern for you?
Well, well, well.
The duke went with him to search Bassanio’s ship.
No, Antony.
So, perhaps, did yours.
Why won’t he?
He says that for Brutus’s sake he finds himself indebted to us all.
The same to you, my lord!
Oh, but I think of him more highly than I say I do—and I wish he looked worse in other women’s eyes.
I told him that your father was in Venice, and that you expected him to arrive in Padua today.
Stay and speak!
Should we part, sweet girl?
Sir, don’t even try to beat me in a battle of wits.
My father and mother coupled when the demonic moon was descending, and I was born under the Big Dipper, so it’s inevitable that I’m rude and oversexed.
We would have liked to have heard your good advice, which has always been serious and helpful, at the council today, but we’ll wait until tomorrow.
But when  You take up your duties too cheerfully.
But since the gibe glanced off me, ten to one it hit you both straight on.
Why are you giving me his title?
And I regret having bragged to the messenger about how my enemies were being butchered at Pomfret while I, as I said, was in good standing with Richard.
It doesn’t sound as sweet as it did before.
I need to get away from you.
Clever lies.
How many wonderful creatures there are here!
Some water will fix that.
If I were in the habit of fighting the way you are, my life insurance rates would be sky high.
So stay for a while.
And this is all because of our argument.
The gods forbid!
Tell every soldier to break off a branch and hold it in front of him.
Come to think of it, I thought I felt a scab there.
Pardon me but I do not know what is “like me.” An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
No, Orlando, men are like April when they’re wooing a girl—young, and passionate—but like December once they’re married and their passions have cooled.
If they have spoken the truth about Hero, I will tear her apart with my bare hands.
Just give me a moment, please—only a moment.
With a needle and thread.
Macbeth will never be defeated until Birnam Wood marches to fight you at Dunsinane Hill.
Whatever happens to me, this is a soldier’s kiss.
I did them for Edward’s sake—and look how he rewards me.—Oh God, if my prayers don’t satisfy you, and you have to avenge the wrongs I’ve done, at least punish me alone!
Poor Tom will take you there.
In the place where souls recline on beds of flowers we’ll walk hand in hand and amaze the other ghosts with our spirited demeanor.
No, no, put your hat back on.
I’d rather die.
You have so much natural talent, but like someone who hoards money, you use none of your talent for the right purpose—not your body, not your love, not your mind.
This means I’ve mistreated Edgar.
I hope not.
tody of them so I can do what’s best out of concern for their honor and the safety of the kingdom.
I’ll bring you to him right away.
If I remember correctly, I can’t raise the entire three thousand ducats immediately.
And you can’t deny evidence and argument—They’ve been around since Noah’s ark.
With the quick, intelligent wit she’s rumored to have, she can’t really be such a bad judge of character that she’d refuse a man as exceptional as Signior Benedick.
Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius.
Are they getting rusty?
Isn’t that what they said?
I’d like to think all men have some hope.
That was my turquoise ring!
I doubt it.
I have no interest in getting mixed up with the devil.
What income, what profit does it bring in?
Did they make you the messenger?
Let go of me.
Go up there and second his petition.
I’ve come to take you to the senate house.
The sweet fool in a fool’s costume—that’s me.
Yes, but he’d deny it all.
Now, Titania, wake up, my sweet queen.
It’s midnight.
But if I were Brutus and Brutus were me, then I’d stir you up, and install in each of Caesar’s wounds the kind of voice that could convince even stones to rise up and mutiny.
Are you a man?
As absolute a traitor as any in the whole entire world—or even France or England!
But now I see our weapons are like straws, our strength like a straw’s weakness, and our weakness past comparison, so that we seem to be the thing we most are not.
Can any of your neighbors tell, Kate?
You’re wrong, sir, I do care about something.
Give me your torch, boy.
Where the devil can Romeo be?
Be patient, madam.
It’s half of all my money.
I’d like to munch on some good dry oats.
It’s a play about ten words long, which is the shortest play I’ve ever heard of.
By the god Jupiter above, I swear “No.” By Jupiter’s wife Juno, I swear “Yes.” They wouldn’t dare.
That’s what I said when I first conjured the tempest.
But since Laertes is better, we’ve given him a handicap.
The bearer of bad news is often blamed for it.
These ones, then, will be assassinated.
If you leave like that, you tell the world that it’s not worthy of a good-bye. 
And in return for this gift, he wishes you to drop your claim to the dukedoms.
Go, go, good countrymen, and to make up for having done wrong, gather up all the poor men like yourselves, lead them to the Tiber, and weep into the river until it overflows its banks.
I didn’t think you would follow me.
Don’t stay to answer me—get going.
That really would be kind.
A gentleman.
I can’t speak any more. 
Well, we almost fought and then realized that we had reached the seventh cause.
And let me kill Cassio.
Good sir, stay close to me.
Oh, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous.
Are you thinking about me?
Oh, so cruel!
Oh my!
Unless I am mistaken, Signior Baptista may remember me from the Pegasus in Genoa, where we both stayed twenty years ago.
We already knew that.
Of brave earls, Grandpré and Roussi, Fauconberg and Foix, Beaumont and Marle, Vaudemont and Lestrale.
And you’re right to do so.
Oh, sad day!
Caesar, the clock has struck eight.
And if you’re not as attentive in serving him as you used to be, that’ll be good.
This fake astonishment of yours is just like your other pranks.
That island of England breeds very valiant creatures.
So let her execute me.
Hurry, Messala, and I’ll look for Pindarus in the meantime.
I wish you and your scarred self had convinced me to wage our last battle on land.
I wish I were in an alehouse in London!
What did he say when he regained consciousness?
And isn’t a sheep’s grease as wholesome as a man’s sweat?
As long as you aren’t ashamed to show it, he won’t be ashamed to tell you what it means.
Where have you been, boy?
Taurus!
Sir, it’s shaped like itself and is as wide as it has width.
Here comes young Mr. Ganymede, my new mistress’s brother.
Ha, ha!
When she was dying she gave it to me and told me to give it to my wife when I got married.
As you all know, overconfidence is man’s greatest enemy.
Would you rather that Caesar were living and we would all go to our graves as slaves, or that Caesar were dead and we all lived as free men?
Nothing else, for God’s sake!
Well, sir, I’ll take you to Lear and have you stay with him a while.
is yours.” And, though I say so in his presence, if he’s not a friend of the best kings, you’ll find him king of the best friends.
Here comes one of them now.
What friend?
What’s going on, Horatio?
It’s like a cannon.
While we’re talking here, a royal battle could be won and lost.
Fight?
I never saw it or suspected it, so it never hurt me.
Come over here, gentlemen, and put your hands on my sword again.
Now get on with your story.
Besides that, he says that two meetings are going to be held tomorrow, and something may be decided at one of them that may make you and him, who are at the other, sorry.
But our courage should only be the greater for that.
Give me an aphrodisiac, pharmacist.
If you like what you see of the land, the profit that’s possible, and this rustic life, I’ll be your faithful servant, and buy the place with your gold right away.
You have more wild goose in one of your jokes than I have in five of mine.
Sir, he ate with this woman at the Porcupine.
The spirit is torturing me.
I ate with him and my sister.
Can’t help it?
I’m not such an idiot that I can’t keep my hands dry.
Please, Emilia, ask Cassio where he was at dinner tonight.—
He swears he used to be a courtier.
Help!
He fell down in the marketplace and foamed at the mouth and was speechless.
A golden mind doesn’t bend down to choose something worthless.
Thanks, my good countryman.
Sit down, Clitus.
Sirs, never mind.
But what danger we’ll put ourselves in, two young, innocent women traveling so far!
And, make no mistake, you’ll find, as we his subjects have, an amazing difference between the king as a young man and the way he is now.
My good lords, I plan to.
What a poor, gullible monster.—That was a nice big gulp, monster!
Most sweet lady— Oh, “sweet”!
Don’t be afraid, even though you see me with a weapon.
No, we’ll all go there to bring him.
I feel my stomach squeezing up against my heart.
Hello, Curan.
I’ll ask only Benedick to come with me, for from the top of his head to the soles of his feet he’s a joker.
Whatever you see first when you wake up, think of it as your true love.
You go pale, you stare, and you act in awe of the strange disturbance in the heavens.
Bellario sends his greetings.    
Listen to me, Queen.
From this moment on, I’ll never say another word.
Picture the linen sails driven by the invisible and subtle wind as they pull the vast hulls through the wrinkled sea, breasting the high waves.
As for Hamlet and his attentions to you, just consider it a big flirtation, the temporary phase of a hot-blooded youth.
Good heavens, those are difficult directions.
How many months do you want?
Not now.
God bless you.
Instead of Celia, call me Aliena.
Their bodies may remain here in England, but their hearts are encamped on the fields of France already.
That big ship over there looks no bigger
Since she belongs to me, I can do what I want with her—as the law says
And my poor  He’s fainted.—My lord, my lord!
Or any of you?
Let’s go at it, coward!
If you were my fool, uncle, I’d have you beaten for getting old before your time.
You gave an excellent performance.
She says all the right things, but the dumbest brothel-keeper would tell the same story.
Don’t put me in the stocks.
Should I believe that death is in love with you, and that the awful monster keeps you here to be his mistress?
Here.
Anyway, my conscience says, “Stay put.” “Go,” the devil says.
And since I wooed her in your name, I’ll join you in disgracing her.
Not that I know of.
Is it feasible?
Here lies Hero, The heroic maiden killed by slanderous words.
It’s not for me to say.
If you see anything else, let me know.
I’m happy about that.
Then I’ll know exactly what she is, just as I know what I am.
I want you to do some things for our wedding, and I also want to discuss something that concerns you both.
Well, the poor man died by your first order, which was carried by a winged messenger.
I cannot blame you now for weeping.
When she put it on my finger, she made me swear never to sell it, give it away, or lose it.
Conscience,” I say, “you give good advice.” “Devil,” I say, “you give good advice.” If I listened to my conscience, I’d stay with the Jew my master, who’s a devil.
So you’ll bring the necklace to her yourself?
Then let’s meet with our senior command and discuss what to do next.
When I’ve revealed my true identity, you’ll be glad you took the time to help me out.
I’d be as right for the job as you are, and I’d do it more easily, since I’d have good will on my side.
According to an agreement, I should wear it myself.
Here’s what you’ll do.
You’d better think up a way to defend yourself.
These are a man’s words, and his handwriting.
I can’t let my lips say his name; “No man must know.”
And just in time, here he comes with Sir Richard Ratcliffe.
Locked in her tomb.
Prepare yourselves.
Here comes my lady.
Your wife and brother led troops against me, claiming to be fighting in your name.
You know where I’ll be waiting.  
And what did he say?
Call it a match!
As you can see, these lovers are looking for a place to fight.
What are you doing?
Villain, you don’t know the laws of God or of man.
And death, not Romeo, can take my virginity!
Since you love money and power so much, I won’t be your wife.
Look how they kiss and carry on!
Enough!
What’s the play called?
Shame on you!
The lady’s overdoing it, I think.
What if I’d said I saw him do something to hurt you?
Please do.
Be gone!
Besides, our hands are hard and calloused.
With anger, with fever, or with hunger, sure, my friend, but never sick with love.
I’m your little dog, Demetrius.
Oh, he’s really gone.
That’s enough about that.
No, not a chance.
Well, Oswald?
Oh, sir, on her nose, which is covered with pimples, sores, and red welts.
He’s busy, can’t you hear him giving orders?
Good-bye.
Your head, my lord?
Won’t you be glad to see that rascal dog humiliated?
How dare    What, is the man crazy?
Fool, do not flatter yourself.
And a true lover of the holy Church.
They did want me to tell her, but I persuaded them that, if they truly loved Benedick, they would try to get him to battle his emotions and keep Beatrice in the dark.
You’ve come to face a ruthless enemy, an inhuman wretch incapable of pity, without any feelings of mercy.
Come with me; I’ll spy under the tents to see if any of my own people plan to desert me.
I recognize the handwriting.
You imply that married men are fools.
Yes, she’s young and tender.
Put
Look how your servants wait on you, each one ready to do whatever you command.
Here comes another Jew.
Their dying shouts broke my heart!
The clock has chimed midnight.
I’m still a virgin.
Has my master returned yet?
If that’s true, it makes up for all the sorrows I’ve ever known.
The “passionate” duke?
Lady Beatrice, have you been crying this entire time?
She’s dead, my Queen.
Good running, Thisbe!
Please, dear, come here.
Who are these people?
Go to him, petition him.
But let’s follow it, and then do our dirty work afterward.
I see Regan and Goneril in hell—A thousand hissing devils with sizzling red pitchforks come up to them!
Now it’s time to get your costumes together.
They come from the four corners of the earth to kiss this shrine and see this living, breathing saint.
I’ll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
Everyone else, march on with me.
Sing us a song.
Well, that turned out well in the end.
You have the best sorts of happiness to enjoy.
He knows that you didn’t embrace Antony because you loved him, but because you feared him.
Oh, no!
You’re lying.
Come on. 
Come on, we have to follow the leaders of the dance.
Let’s talk.
And don’t be suspicious of me, noble Brutus.
Who ever saw the heavens threaten like this?
We understand you’re just doing it for us, and we’ll be sure to say so.
If you’re my friend, you’ll let me see his letter.
You should mock me    I wish I were invisible, so I could grab that strong fellow by the leg.
The world doesn’t make laws to make you rich.
Is supper ready?
I don’t know what to think about this.
Ah, ladies, ladies!
Damn it, who’s there?
My good man Norfolk, hurry to your post.
I thumb my nose at superstitions.
Yes.
Tell me one.
It’s him!
Oh, give us permission, great king, to search the field in safety and dispose of our dead bodies.
Somebody’s knocking.
Was this ambition?
And Walter couldn’t get his dagger out of its sheath.
Well, that’s the same thing.
Your husband’s mad, isn’t he?
Send for the Count.
What evil things were done to us that we were driven here?
And there were a hundred spooked women huddled together in fear who swore they saw men on fire walk up and down the streets.
I can justify that better than you can justify sleeping with Portia’s African servant.
Your delicacies aren’t worth as much to me as your welcome is.
But that’s not part of what I’m supposed to say.
Finally the new moon, curved like a silver bow in the sky, will look down on our wedding celebration.
There’s a nice reason why the constellation Pleiades has only seven stars in it.
It’s too bad some mutual friend of theirs doesn’t introduce them.
Our guiding light is out.
This is the prophecy that the wizard 
Thank you.
I’ll do that.    
Well, death is the end for everybody.
No.
The muffled queen”?
That’s how it was with Henry the Sixth, who was crowned in Paris when he was only nine months old.
See how well she can turn?
Yes.
Gentlemen, stand up.
Just do it carefully.—And to think that the noble and loyal Kent has been banished, for the crime of telling the truth!
I know you.
Hold him in custody until the Prince gets here.
Before you make  My lord, you could really help me out now.
Let their beds be as soft as yours, and let them eat the same food as you”?
Have you given up so quickly on Rosaline, whom you loved so much?
Lucentio’s son is older than that, sir.
What’s the news?
So, there’s the signal to ride.
Finally, the ceremony done, he called for wine.
May Egypt drown in the Nile and all good creatures turn into poisonous snakes.
Hey, if I lay down my “ Welcome, Lorenzo and Salerio.
I beg you, remember the good work I’ve done for you, and how I’ve never lied to you, never made mistakes, and never grumbled in my work.
Oh, no.
He did, and he snatched my ring right off my finger.
She is banished.
Madam wife, they say I’ve been dreaming or asleep for more than fifteen years.
But in return, please, do one thing for me
Sometimes you get a bit too wild, and you let your voice get a bit loud and rude.
I’ll go wait for Dromio at the marketplace.
We are fortunate in the change.
Come along with me.
Please, fool, go away.
My lord, I will help you, even if it means I have to stay awake for ten nights straight.
They can’t have changed; there’s no way this could be true.
The only possible interest I could take in you would be to hit you on the head with a stool, paint your face with blood, and make a fool out of you.
At other times, I know what’s what.
He is like a god and knows the truth.
If you say my wife is beautiful, eats well, loves good company, speaks freely, sings, plays music, and dances well, you’re not making me jealous.
You won’t, then?
It’s a bet.
My noble lords and relatives, good morning.
Although I can’t make his ship disappear, I can still make his journey miserable.
Nothing can be made out of nothing.
May the tongues of our critics rot!
Military music and military rites will speak for his heroic qualities.
If you’d been as wise as you were bold, With an old man’s mature judgment, You wouldn’t have had to read this scroll.
They are here at court now, and I believe they’ve been told to give a performance for him tonight.
Hey, love, I say!
Farewell, brother.
It’s on such a high tide that we’re now floating, and we must take the current when it is offered, or lose our campaign.
But I beg your pardon.
If he’s reluctant, I can convince him.
Do you see that cloud up there that looks like a camel?
Get up, I tell you!
I will.
So cheer up, there’s still hope for you, man.
No, some of it is about my child’s father.
But there is no end, absolutely none, to my sexual desires.
Laertes, I want you to hear what they say.
You don’t have a man’s courage.
Do it.
There wasn’t any problem.
Bring me the handkerchief—My mind is full of doubt.
He must be wearing this crazy outfit for some reason.
Welcome.
Lock the doors, my lord.
Mark Antony, take Caesar’s body.
There’s no place I’d rather die than here by Caesar, and no manner of death would please me more than being stabbed by you, the masters of this new era.
And so, beautiful lady, I’m standing here just like that, wondering whether all this can be true until you tell me it is.
Go forward.
To supper?
Let’s meet as little as we can.
Well, you’ve given away all your other rightful titles.
Oh, my old master!—Who tied him up?
What do you mean, “wears the wreath”?
It’s absolutely true, so take good care of it.
Know him?
I’m out of breath, sir.
Jesus, he’s an ass if there ever was one!
Before he leaves this part of the forest, you’ll change places
Oh great, here come the Capulets.
I’ll tell him all of this, dear lady.
We’re sitting ducks for the French, if they only knew it, for there is no one guarding it but boys.
You speak like a very thankful and respectful boy, and may God bless you.  
I’m sorry I said anything.
It said, “Love me and don’t leave me.” How can you talk about the quality of the poem or the value of the ring?
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding day.
Look how she carries on with him!
I would have thrown away all other considerations and made her my wife.
Keep up your courage, man!
Why, our troops amount to three times that.
He’s gone, and his wife’s dead.
But oh, what a deceiver he turned out to be!
If I live to see it, I’ll never trust his word again.
Then you’re a fool for being sad that your brother’s soul is in heaven.
My sons Edward and Clarence!
I understand now.
And what do you know, boy?
And if your clothes were as thin as mine, you’d really feel the air.
You’re both very precious to me.
Oh God, I have a soul that predicts evil things!
We have  And one of them is the criminal Deformed.
Yes, it’s true, sir.
Your love will use it to climb up to your window while it’s dark.
I’ve heard of men who pick fights with other people on purpose, just to see how brave they are.
But listen to me, signor—
You must be crazy to say that!
She’s very moral.
A friend.
We seemed to have two separate bodies, but we had one heart.
Please, sir, hurry up.
Our handwriting gives away our hearts.
The more she
It’s Hortensio, isn’t it?
Really, I’m only pretending to be him.
Come on, envelope, open up for me.
Only my free will—nothing else.
Sir, we came to see your father’s funeral.
These are nothing but jealous lies.
We’re to be married on Sunday.
I have to leave right away.
If he loves Caesar, then he can only hurt himself—by grieving and dying for Caesar.
He’s been seen there many mornings, crying tears that add drops to the morning dew and making a cloudy day cloudier with his sighs.
My pretty children, both of you misunderstand me.
Now, my friendly servant, thank you.
My niece Olivia will notice, and let me tell you, no matchmaker in the world can get you a woman faster than a reputation for courage.
I do not know that you are as good a man as myself.
Oh, Cleopatra!
Madam, not yet.
He’ll never agree to that.
Wake up, I say!
I asked a servant.
That must mean a sword.
I can tell you, but young Romeo will be older when you find him than he was when you started looking for him.
What do you think, girl!
If you can shape up, you’re welcome to stay in the house.
What else could you possibly think of me?
That’s great.
Play, trumpets!
Listen!
My heart is thirsty for that noble promise.
We’ll have celebration feasts for each other before we go our separate ways.
I’m crying at how unworthy I am to give you what I want to give you and to take what I’m dying to have.
Let me stand here until you remember your reason.
Were his wounds on his front side?
I swear he’s the better dog.
I can’t find anyone who saw her leave.
Good morning, Caesar.
Ranting and raving to my own shadow!
Kinsmen, I hope the time is coming when people will be safe in their own bedrooms.
She will have a seat—you heard my daughter tell you how.
He is taking care of it as we speak.
Yes, and he’ll keep getting funnier till he dies.
Hell and damnation!
I’m telling you, just watch his face.
What’s the matter?
It’s amazing, if I may say so, that she let herself be tamed.
But she is now Mark Antony’s wife.
But if you die before I return, you’ll have made a mockery of my efforts.
But the devil that tempted you gave you no reason why you should commit treason other than to win the name of traitor.
Or tell me, my sweet love, what you’d like to eat.
Oh, for God’s sake.
It’s the lark that sings so out of tune, making such harsh noise.
Just as you’d like to have your sins forgiven, Indulge me, forgive me, and set me free.
Why didn’t you say “the swift steps” of time instead of the “lazy foot”?
If he had as many lives as he’s got hairs on his head, I would’ve killed them all in revenge.
Nothing that you want to hear, my lord, but nothing so bad that I can’t mention it.
I have come here to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
So be quiet.
Are you going to Scone?
In my travels, great scholars have come up to me, meaning to greet me with well-rehearsed welcoming speeches, and I have seen them tremble and turn pale, and pause inappropriately in the middle of their sentences, and botch their well-rehearsed tones of voice because they’re so nervous, and then break off abruptly at the end, without actually welcoming me.
Just a minute ago I was the owner of this beautiful mansion, master of these servants, and queen over myself.
We’re sorry to hear this.
What, my good lord?  
I see that you are poor.
Find a father who loved his child as overwhelmingly as I loved Hero and ask
I don’t know her, but I know her father and he knew mine well.
My songbird, we have beaten them to their beds.
What do you want to do, Desdemona?
But, go on.
I meant a crowbar.
Please, tell us.
Find a time to speak with Don Pedro and Claudio alone.
Our love, which right now is like a flower bud in the summer air, may turn out to be a beautiful flower by the next time we meet.
Are you squinting at me?
Hello, sir.
I told you, sir, they were totally drunk, so puffed up with courage that they were getting angry at the air for blowing in their faces, and beating the ground for touching their feet—yet even when drunk, they kept their plan firmly in mind.
Oh, my poor Rosalind, where will you go?
You go to Friar Lawrence’s cell.
The king?
I’d rather be wooed by a snail.
We heard it very clearly.
All the rest of you can leave too.
Not yet.” Well, the time has come.
Please, uncle, let’s go in and ask your daughters to forgive you.
Well, may peace be with you.
You’re a lover.
I intend to be flesh and blood, not airy philosophy, for there has never yet been a philosopher who could endure a toothache patiently, even though they all write as if they had risen above human suffering and misfortune.
Wipe your eyes.
I did, Malvolio?
The law fully authorizes the penalty, which you have to pay according to the contract.
No, I didn’t say that.
Come over here.
Whip him, fellows, until he screws up his face like a baby and cries aloud for mercy!
Knowing how much I loved my books, he gave me some books from my library that I value more than my dukedom.
I humbly thank you.
Can I go away while my heart stays here?
I haven’t seen anything.
Send something along to prove you’re withdrawing the orders.
She’s busy and cannot come!” Is that an answer?
Beware of March 15th.
Yes, it stinks very sweetly.
As for the Jew’s contract, don’t let it be a factor in your plans.
Goodbye.
And what are you going to do with it?
Benedick, did you notice Signior Leonato’s daughter?
I don’t believe it.
Tomorrow is Wednesday.
When a great person departs, it causes more pain than when the soul leaves the body.
I don’t want to take another man’s second-hand goods.
Come on, put your sword away, my little soldier.
Shame on you; I’ve already run out of patience with you all.
I don’t know.
I sink under the heavy weight of love.
Well, if you were never at court, you were never exposed to good manners; if you never witnessed good manners, your manners must be wicked; wickedness is a sin, and committing sins leads to damnation.
But not so nice when women misbehave.
You don’t love me.
Did you see the gloomy Lord Northumberland?
There’s two—a man and a woman.
Never, Iago.
I should think that your appetite would act like a clock (as mine does) and bring you home on its own, without the need for a messenger.
Take these too.
They’re pretty busy in there.
No, I said his horse is coming, with him on its back.
She’s mine, and I’m giving her to Demetrius.  
Why are you whispering?
Good heavens!
As you know, next Sunday my daughter Katherina is to be married. 
Why are we talking about this?
The army is ready.
Dorset, embrace Hastings.—Hastings, express your affection for the marquess of Dorset.
If I’m killed, it will only be the death of a man who was willing to be dead.
Then we’ll call this the Battle of Agincourt, fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus.
I swear by my holy order, I thought you were smarter and more rational than this.
What shall I do for you?
If I can disguise my voice as well as my appearance, then I’ll be able to carry out my plan perfectly.
You know I’m powerful enough to make you pay for this.
I don’t completely distrust you.
Even though I’m mad, I won’t bite him.
No, not until we see a hot January.
I’ll be right here, silent.
Where did you leave him?
Yes, my lord?
Sometimes she rides over a courtier’s lips, and he dreams of making money off of someone.
Forgive me, your grace.
Be patient, your highness.
Hide with a false pleasant face what you know in your false, evil heart.
No, not until Thursday.
But you should hurry anyway.
There’s nothing else.
That’s enough.
Yes, sir.
Good Metellus, go to him now.
She’s as dead as the cold ground.
To the Forest of Arden, to find your father.
What, not even to pray?
I think it would be very hard to arrange for them to have sex while you watched.
I hope some will fall off tomorrow.
Look, here come two noble animals, a man and a lion.
Barnardo’s taken my place.
That’s the right attitude.
Oh Friar, damned souls use the word banishment to describe hell.
What can I give you that you want, my lord, except the one thing you can’t have?
Because Pyramus is a good-looking man, the most handsome man that you could find on a summer’s day, a lovely gentlemanly man.
How else is he the “man in the moon”?
And like I am for no woman.
My dearest love, Duncan is coming here tonight.
His ships are maneuverable.
I need to be alone with my thoughts for a while and don’t want any company.
I swear to you, I don’t want to be doing this.
You can’t have anything but the penalty, to be taken at your peril, Jew.
Therefore, my old age is like a blustery winter
Yes, he said something in Greek.
What a miracle!
If I stay longer, I’ll embarrass you and disgrace myself by crying.
And I came with him.
You’ve never seen anything like it.
Why are you telling me this?
I feel sorry for you.
That’s my brave lord!
And anything else?
We need a more appropriate place to discuss Cordelia and her father.
The only thing different about me is my clothes.
Monday, my lord.
No more than that, my lord.
Are you down in the dumps?
So go out there and give him what he wants.
Your threats don’t scare me, Cassius, because I’m so secure in my honesty and integrity that they pass me by like a weak breeze.
Why are you leaving, my angry friend?
When will he be here?
Toward Chertsey, noble lord?
He’s married.
Now, lords, don’t let slip any opportunity that might be advantageous for our expedition.
The present time is like a woman in labor, each minute giving birth to some piece of news.
In order to find a mother and a brother, I too have lost myself, unhappily.
We didn’t please them on land.
Indeed, they say that the senators plan to establish Caesar as a king tomorrow, and he’ll wear his crown at sea and on land everywhere except here in Italy.
I did.
I recognize something about that voice.
That’s enough for the senate.
The most you hope for was for her to marry wealthy and rise up the social ladder—that was your idea of heaven.
I’m full of joy.
Good morning, Kate, for I hear that’s what you’re called.
Okay, just stay quiet.
Cleopatra summoned him.
Then I’ll listen to her.
It’s Brabantio.
It astounds me that such a weak man could beat the whole world and carry the trophy of victory alone.
Speak to us.
I love you as a child should love her father, neither more nor less.
Or stole it, rather.
They sing when they die.
Good luck.
Good night, good boy.
You mournful princes and grieving gentlemen who have been sharing this burden of grief, now it’s time to cheer each other up with love.
Think like that, and you’ll manage to get honey out of a common weed and find a moral lesson in the devil himself.
My dear, let’s go inside and wait for them to arrive.
We must preserve our goodwill toward each other and not break into factions again.
I am not here to disprove what Brutus has said, but to say what  I think there’s a lot of sense in what he says.
It’s coming toward me.
His name is Balthazar.
I know the glove is a glove.
Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these dispatches to our forces on the other side.
Tell me your idea first.
Is it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was killed as they say?
Young man, your father’s dead.
I agree— Put a mark next to his name too, Antony.
I go over hills and valleys, through bushes and thorns, over parks and fenced-in spaces, through water and fire.
Where that “sweetheart” said I was her husband!
Tell me, Fluellen
A snake did do it, because no snake ever had a more forked, lying tongue than you have.
No, sir, she’s human.
I’ll be thrilled.
He won’t catch a wink of sleep, either at night or during the day.
She stood trembling, then suddenly dropped dead.
I can’t believe you’re my son.
Let me see his face.
I became his guide, I led him and begged for him, and kept him from suicide.
Then the wrong man is dead, and sweet revenge has gone wrong.
When you see him walking by here (as I’ll make sure he does between twelve and one) you can nab him.
I don’t think he wants to be disturbed.
Speak, Pyramus.—Thisbe, come forward.
What do you think of this plan?
He’s crying out for you and swears he’ll burn your face and disfigure you if he can get ahold of you.
Yes, boy.
I was not myself, as a result of the wine.
People with too much invested in the world always get hurt.
Did he charge interest?
Any trick that works is good for me.
The Phoenix is my house?
This, this All-Souls' day, is my just desserts.
Well, give me the worst news.
You ass!
Why did you send me out, brave Cassius?
Yes, better than you know me.
Not many, and no one important.
almost read people’s thoughts.
Does that mean he’s lazy?
Were you talking about Juliet?
Saint Francis, help me!
But you had better get back to Egypt again.
You have to pretend to be your niece’s father, and give her away to Claudio.
Damn that crazy madman!
Get out!
Well, she got away.
Good Volumnius, you know that we went to school together.
I wish you had my bones, and I had your news.
I wish I were Sleep and Peace, so I could spend the night with you.
In two months—a month before this loan is due—I expect to earn more than three times that much from my investments.
Stand back.
Don’t talk to me, Emilia.
A very clear way, but there is no friend who will undertake it.
They’re looking for you in the great chamber.
This place is full of trouble, torments, and amazements.
And I see her also through the eyes of love.
You told me to do the same, my liege.
No, just listen to me.
Twenty thousand crowns now, and half my lands after my death.
Good Ursula, go wake my cousin and ask her to get up.
I swear, if anyone holds me back, I’ll make a ghost of him!
Then immediately call the rest of the watch together and thank God that you’ve gotten rid of such a criminal.
I’m better off because of my enemies, and worse off because of my friends.
I’ll do that.
Me too.
It won’t last.
If the duke and his court agree to set aside the fine for one half of his property, I’m happy, as long as he lets me have the other half in trust, to give it to the gentleman who recently stole his daughter.
It was the most ruthless massacre this country has ever been guilty of.
Because I didn’t want to watch while you gouged out his poor old eyes with your cruel fingernails, or while your vicious sister sank her fangs into his sacred flesh.
The ground is bloody.
I need to hear the truth about all this.
My lord of Gloucester, I have suffered your blunt upbraidings and your bitterness toward me for too long.
Don’t you know he has?
I’ve practiced Stoicism with as much devotion as you, but I still couldn’t bear this news like you do.
Nothing is what it is.
Play with me, Charmian.
Twenty crowns?
Cure her of that.
And what a slug Hastings is that he hasn’t even arrived to tell us whether they’re coming!
I know where she is and, if you don’t mind, I will set her before you tomorrow, whole and unharmed.
Then my children will probably be illegitimate.
I accept your devotion with my deepest love.
Sheep pens are empty in the middle of the flooded fields, and the crows get fat from eating the dead bodies of infected sheep.
Do you want to destroy our old friendship by joining these men to insult your poor friend?
Wish me luck.
Oh, it was a monstrous roar, to make the earth tremble!
That’s true.
Oh, my!
In that case it’s like the words of an unpaid lawyer.
The storm separated us.
We’ll bury him, and then we’ll commit acts as brave and fine as any Romans, and make death proud to take us.
I seek no revenge for myself, but so dearly do I hold the safety of my kingdom, which you sought to destroy, that you must be punished according to her laws.
It’s not right to obey his orders to let him go alone.
Forgive me.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.
My lord, when I first saw him I thought he was your daughter’s brother.
You’ll be back at two o'clock?
It carried us toward Corinth–or so we thought.
Lord Mayor, the reason we have sent— Look behind you!
I know you for what you really are, but as your sister I’m reluctant to criticize you.
Like a mouse caught in my own trap, Osric.
And like I am for Ganymede.
Oh, so you’d give me all your tediousness?
I can’t admit that, since you’d have to compare his excellence to mine.
You see how kind everyone is to us, how they just hand us gold.
What have you done?
Well, it’s a fault I wouldn’t trade for your best virtue.
If I were king?
Truly, lady, you have a merry heart.
Like hell!
Hey, hey!
Let me sit down.
Oh, my mistress, a villain has made a mockery of your love!
We have God and a good cause on our side.
Well, sir, because silver has a sweet sound.
You refused me both.
Goodbye, Goodbye!
Where is my page?
We took this pickax and this shovel from him, as he was walking from this side of the graveyard.
That’s what’s driving her crazy.
She’s talking.
I’d rather be a heretic than a schemer with fancy plots.
We have not betrayed you.
But what love could make my Lysander leave me?
Your complaint against me is perfectly understandable, but I still insist I’ve done everything I could to help you.
We’ll be there, and there we’ll rehearse courageously and wonderfully, truly obscenely.
A veteran commander and a very kind gentleman.
The money you owe me for the necklace.
It may be honest, but it’s never wise to bring bad news.
Let it be who it is.
Sorry, sir?
Here comes Sir Oliver.
Why do you care that he loves Hermia?
But you’re keeping a hundred knights here who are so disorderly, vulgar, and obnoxious that our noble court is starting to look like a noisy cheap hotel.
Leave me alone for a minute.
No, no.
Let lightning spit fire!
No more of these thoughts.
It’s this servantlike mentality that’s keeping you unmarried.
I hope to God I’m proven wrong!
Are Decius Brutus and Trebonius there?
Peter Quince— What is it, jolly Bottom?
Are you sure of that?
Hurry.
And even if you throw everything you possess to the two of them, they’ll battle each other to the death to have it all.
The brave experience death only once.
Here’s someone coming in his pajamas, with a candle and weapons.
Hey monster, the spirit you’ve been talking about, the one you call harmless, has been playing tricks on us.
The enemy is making its appearance on the battlefield.
Well said!
And here comes father.
We don’t doubt it.
The same liquor that quenched their thirst has fired me up.
One?
There isn’t any kindness in the snake.
Give me the daggers.
He lay there, stretched out like a wounded knight.
Well then, here’s more money for you.
Why shouldn’t I?
Lady Strachy married her wardrobe manager.
And those eyes were endowed with sight by Claudio, the Prince, and me.
I love to argue with him when he’s having one of these fits, because then he always has a lot to say.
Poison, I see, has been the cause of his death.
Everything we’ve heard is bad.
So think carefully about what you want, beautiful Hermia.
Silver.
Who in the crowd is calling me?
It’s too bad.
What does he look like, Biondello?
So please, my sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be happy.
Uncle, please give me your dagger.
I won’t tolerate him.
Indeed, he’s not right for this.
Your father is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
Here, sir!
Look and see.
Oh, where’s Romeo?
But in this case of wooing, a child shall father his own father—if my wits don’t fail me.
Murellus and Flavius have been punished for pulling scarves off statues of Caesar.
It’s a long story—and tough to listen to.
Can it be possible that no one saw them leave?
And why’s that?
Mighty duke, please allow me to say something.
But first, I have to tell you that Desdemona’s completely in love with him.
Oh, teach me how you look the way you do, and which tricks you used to make Demetrius fall in love with you.
I don’t know you.
Is your master coming?
Yes, even if I had a thousand more pounds than that, for I hear that you are  Me, too.
You said it right, old mole.
Refusing to fight him at sea won’t disgrace you.
Oh noble lord, consider your lineage.
I am not a child or an infant.
I got him to leave, and made up an excuse for your trance.
I’m afraid of what they might encourage him to do, considering the state he’s in.
All the worse that she stooped this low, then.
And tell the Dauphin his joke will look pretty stupid when thousands more weep than ever laughed at it.
Why did you do that?
Claudio deserves to be honored, and Don Pedro has rewarded him accordingly.
Hurry.
Not old enough to be a man, but not young enough to be a boy.
No, not a sad song.
He does, and now he’s taking revenge on you—for breaking promises and for murder, too.
Should I tell you why?
I will never be exhibited as lucky Caesar’s prize.
It would be smart to offer someone poor and innocent like me as a sacrificial lamb to satisfy an angry god like Macbeth.
You’re making me go off-key.
Let me work on him.
My lord, no one will believe this in Venice, even though I’d swear I saw it with my own eyes.
It’s too bad that Antony’s fault should make you look like a jerk.
When courage consumes reason, it destroys its only weapon.
Yes, sir.
I’m no more insane than you are, and I’ll prove it.
Thisbe?
The people fear me in the country and the town.
I’ll say you’re not feeling well.
Gentlemen, I hope you are well.
I’m telling you, it was Carthage.
What is a traitor?
There’s still a stain on your cheek from an old tear that hasn’t been washed off yet.
Isn’t that him heading this way?
Who, me?
I am satisfied.
It must go like this.
Showing mercy by pardoning killers only causes more murders.
He’ll be like this for a little while.
That’s the whore’s curse, to seduce many men, but to be seduced by one.
Romeo!
Is it possible for a mutt to lend three thousand ducats?” Or should I bend down low, and in a humble and submissive voice say
But if I shake it up a little it’ll work, because every one of those letters is in my name.
Ah, all you up in heaven!
And, as the speaker of any prologue should, I ask you to hear our play courteously and to judge it kindly.
I wish I were as big and strong as you.
Well, we’ve missed the beginning; it’s dead and buried.
Whatever I think, I have to say.
For a while, no play was sold to the theaters without a big fight between the children’s playwright and the actors playing adult roles.
He’ll accompany my wife, and bring whatever else you think I might need.
What stunning, exquisite, and unmatchable beauty—but please, tell me if you’re the lady of the house, because I’ve never seen her.
Don’t be afraid.
I’m as crazy as he is, if sad craziness and happy craziness are equivalent.
So did I.
As eagerly as I ever came from school.
Where have you sent the king?
I don’t want anything but that.
Wake up my whole household!
Oh, sin can disguise itself so artfully!
But who’s that coming this way?
Please, all of you, stand up.
If my doing what you told me to makes you happy, then be happy, because I did it.
I don’t want to go mad.
A bit of a hurry, my lord!
It’s wrong for the duke to do this.
You’re as wise as you are beautiful.
Servants, take these gentlemen to see Hamlet.
Why, the he that will marry this woman.
Have I lost my wit?
Good idea.
The only thing that I’ve been entrusted with was getting you from the market and bringing you to your house, the Phoenix, for lunch.
I couldn’t stay behind after you left.
Well, time will tell.
Where is Lucentio?
So tell me what’s been going on.
I’m not Stephano, I’m a walking cramp.
My lady would never want to lose him.
And love doesn’t have good judgment either—Cupid, has wings and no eyes, so he’s bound to be reckless and hasty.
Do you smell something naughty?
I have forgotten your name, but you were well cast in the role and played it convincingly.
Come here.
It’s a strange snake.
Horatio says we’re imagining it, and won’t let himself believe anything about this horrible thing that we’ve seen twice now.
Take up the sword again, or take me up.
A strange fish.
The woman who might have blocked you from all the murders you’ve committed by strangling you in her cursed womb.
My husband?
Good Portia, go to bed.
What did he do to you?
Scorn and defiance, indifference, contempt, and any insult that wouldn’t disgrace the mighty sender—that’s the value he puts on you.
Ask her to help you get back your position.
Lay off, already!
There’s something downright unnatural about it, if a philosopher stopped to think about it.
Oh, in the duke of Gloucester’s wallet.
Is this possible, my lord?
If what you say is true, you can do the same to me. 
Wait, Petruchio, I should go with you.
I am no tyrant but a Christian king, whose emotions are as tightly controlled as the wretches who languish in our prisons.
I’ll sue him for assault and battery, if there’s any justice in Illyria.
Oh, wouldn’t it be great if property, rank, official positions, and other honors were earned only by merit, not by corruption?
But those who understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads.
If you survive, I’ll live.
Did I do anything good to myself?
Now, Catesby, what does your lord say to my request?
I am, unless I somehow stole this role.
Come with us, Lepidus.
If our father were dead you’d receive half of his revenue forever, and you’d have my undying love,      Edgar.” Hmm, what’s this, a conspiracy?
I never saw my father in my life.
Romeo ran away when Tybalt fell dead.
Besides, how have I offended you, my friends?
Why are you here?
Set down your honorable load, men, if there is ever any honor in being dead.
That’s a lame threat from a toy gun, a poor individual’s private displeasure with a monarch.
If you want to pick a fight, you’ll have to find a more substantial excuse.
I’m positively stuffed with air, I eat so much of it.
That’s noble of you, master.
This guy doesn’t pay much attention to punctuation.
I’m leaving your court now.
Cupid—that blind bastard son of Venus, conceived from a thought and anger, born from insanity, that blind, naughty boy who makes everyone else go blind just because he can’t see himself—let Cupid judge how deep my love runs.
Sorry, I’m all stuffed.
It’s impossible.
Not yet, cousin.
Please don’t be angry.
Flies can kiss her, but I must flee the city.
Yes, but these English are seriously short of beef.
That was good planning, and you’ll sleep some more.
But I can’t help laughing to think that the baby stopped crying and said, “Yes.” I swear, she had a bump on her forehead as big as a rooster’s testicle.
The hour of death is approaching.
Lend me your handkerchief.
It’s a lucky sign, isn’t it?
I meant they had to give her credit.
Now I’m afraid we’ve lost your son forever.
And hello to you, fair sister.
I have it on me here.
What if I went no further and chose this one?
Such an expression of despair would only prove that I was guilty.
Speak once again.
I’ve got news, boys, the war’s over!
What else?
His most horrible murder.
You don’t know that?
I sent Dromio to you with money for bail, but I don’t think he brought it to you.
Pick up this rope ladder.
Authority.
Listen to me, for I have something to tell you.
And the men resemble their English hounds in their loud, showy ferocity, too, leaving their brains behind with their wives.
Are you planning to go out?
But if I gave my wife a handkerchief— Then what?
As king, I cannot risk the danger he represents as he grows crazier by the hour.
This is going to be great!
Where do you live?
The person who’s poor and contented is rich enough.
No, you monstrous hags, I’ll get revenge on you both that will make the whole world… I will do such things—I don’t know what I’ll do exactly, but it’ll be devastating.
The world is not your friend, and neither is the law.
Kings and noblemen served him.
The woman I love is beautiful.
I swear, anyone smart who laughs at these courts jesters is nothing but a jester’s apprentice.
Sir Paris, I’ll make a desperate argument for my child’s love.
Listen, she loved her cousin Tybalt dearly, and so did I.
I am a gentleman of a company.
Knock, knock, knock!
I had a dream last night about the three witches.
Gertrude, he says he’s found out the reason for your son’s insanity.
You know tomorrow is her wedding day.
As far as I’m concerned, what’s past is done.
This clearing will be the stage, and this hawthorn bush will be our dressing room.
Young boys and girls are equal to men.
Nature, I don’t accuse your weather of unkindness.
Didn’t I tell you she was innocent?
If God had been willing, I wish we had died in the same hour too!
Oh, what a villain!
You’re defending an impostor?
My friend Antonio, all I can say is thank you.
Nothing, my lord.
There are rats and thieves and pirates—not to mention storms, winds, and rocks.
Isn’t my name Hero?
Tear him to pieces.
Your worst fault is being in love.
I do suffer love, because I love you against my will.
Oh, what a bloody end to all this!
I’m done for.
Can’t you see I’m eating?
But was this near the shore?
I think this country is so kind that if it weren’t for
You purple flower, hit by Cupid’s arrow, sink into the pupils of this man’s eyes.
They’re more like how you would act if you were a woman telling a scary story by the fireside in front of her grandmother.
What, would you have me beg for my food?
Your cheeks are thin because of hunger.
But mistress, know yourself.
I never thought any less of him.
Go away, now.
No, no, he’s dead.
My lord, please go inside here.
Somebody’s knocking.
He said, “Remember me.” I swore I would.
Oh, come on.—Come here, sir.
I’m very uncomfortable, and that won’t help my case.
But if you live to see yourself similarly denied your rights, this foolish patience will abandon you.
It’s all still yours.
Thank you for asking, uncle.
Well, until that time, don’t come near me.
And is everyone who swears and lies a traitor?
It’s too late.
You’re not paying attention to me.
Goodbye, gentlemen.
Oh friendly friar!
And throw this dead peasant into the manure pit.—Regan, I’m bleeding.
Answer when I call your name.—Nick Bottom, the weaver?
So be it.
What’s your message?
What dangers are you trying to lead me into, Cassius, that you want me to look inside myself for something that’s not there?
Therefore, let every man give some thought to how this noble expedition may be undertaken.
But why aren’t you in your shop today?
Kent, father, sisters!
Play me some music.
When you see leeks in the future, I hope you keep mocking them.
I have no idea what you’re talking about, Hamlet.
I’ll help you, Sir Toby.
Maybe he won’t see me.
Edward’s sons have been carried off by the angels and Anne, my wife, has bid good night to the world.
How sound asleep she is!
I did that and more, which brings me to the point of this second meeting.
O Harry’s wife, do not triumph in my sorrow!
Oh, a thousand of them, all of which I’ve forgotten.
Yes, that the king is dead.
Worse than that, she’s polluted herself, so that the fountain is a place where disgusting toads copulate and reproduce!
You’ve got a sword, Gloucester.
If he did that, it would be a charitable deed to hang him.
I’m afraid you’ll come to me again for ransom.
Good day and happiness to you, darling Rosalind.
You’ve said it well.
Soon enough.
That’s cowardly and womanish.
This one, and I will give her to you.
What’s this?
Murder, murder!
Would you care to hear some music?
Are you laughing at what I say, as if I were a fool?
I’ll do it, but I don’t like it.
Go to my brother Cassius.
I know that young men look forward to their rest.
We don’t know.
Madam, how are you liking this play?
When he woke, he wouldn’t know where he was.
I’ve got my answer.
Do your best.
I hope, sir, that you’re not angry that I’ve been equally attentive to you both!  
My dear Regan, your sister’s not worth anything.
Are you going to say good things about the man who killed your cousin?
Call up your courage.
And if it doesn’t go well, then you can keep her hidden in a nunnery, the best place for someone with her kind of dirtied reputation—away from the public’s eyes, tongues, mind, and insults.
I ran into her recently at the edge of the forest, looking for sweet presents for this hateful idiot, and I scolded her and argued with her.
Go and wiggle your ears!
He says your daughter’s not feeling well, my lord.
He uses his clownishness to disguise his deadly wit.
It is only as high as it is and moves with its own legs.
What’s the matter with you?
This is no way to treat a host who has welcomed you into his house.
I’m the king himself.
Listen up, you slave.
My lord, I don’t think I cried out.
At that time you can smash in his skull after seizing his books; or you can bash his skull with a log; or you can stab him in the belly; or cut his windpipe.
Will you let me?
So can I.
Take my advice.
This may have seemed like the pinnacle of sadness, but if I went on I could outdo it.
Tsk, you’re wrong.
Don’t you think you should go to bed, Malvolio?
Where have  Come here, boy.
Three or four women near me cried, “Alas, good soul!” and forgave him with all their hearts.
Oh God—who is, by the way, the best comic of them all.
So now everyone will point at me and say, “Look, there goes the wife of that comedian Petruchio—if he could be bothered to marry the pathetic thing!”  
God bless you, sir.
Who should hang them?
One of these three boxes contains her lovely picture.
Go to him from me.
As faithful as flies in rotting meat, which give birth to maggots every time the wind blows.
One voice speaks well and talks about his friend.
If it pleases your Majesty, let his neck pay the price, if there is any martial law in the world.
In exchange, give up your claim to love Helena, since I love her and will love her until I die.
You’ve humiliated him, lady
I know what I’ll do.
Let them in.
A backbiting friend, one who grabs people, who patrols the streets and passageways.
No one’s life should have been entrusted to them.
Romeo, get out of here.
But if your soles are worn out, I can mend you.
You didn’t offend us, you offended the king.
No, first let’s talk to him.
Is he still alive?
Show me the way.
No man must know.” What if this someone were you, Malvolio?
My clerk has some comforting news for you, too.
Yes, I will.
You were sent for.
I can’t, my lord.
Have you heard something of her in your letters?
No, master, I’ve been changed in both mind and body.
Nonsense!
Thursday it is, then. 
Because then I’d have to shed an ounce or two of your impudent blood.
Why are you silent?
This is Lucentio’s house.
Let me tell
I’ll be nearby.
Opportunity’s knocking for you, and in my imagination I see a crown dropping onto your head.
No, girl!
This guy’s wise enough to play the fool, and only clever people can do that.
Play some music while he chooses.
Maybe you’ll see some little trinket you want to buy.
Do they attract big audiences?
His highness is not well.
So you’d better not stay with him, Antony.
But how did you want it made?
Good afternoon, my dear lord!
No, no, they wouldn’t.
Good morning, sir.
Any man can get drunk sometime.
What did I promise, my dear?
Go to my room and put on something of mine.
Things have certainly changed!
It has hatched a    I go unwillingly.
Then we can all three be comrades on our way to France.
I can help you find a wife who’s rich, young, beautiful, and reared in a manner fit for a gentlewoman.
Did you hear that?
When I ran into this holy man, those men you mentioned did come to mind, in fact.
Canidius and the others that left Antony are given hospitality here but no positions of trust.
We’ll win yet.
Ah, my lord, this prince is nothing like Edward!
It’s worthless.
Call the messengers!  
I have only come in—like the others have—to try to fight him with the strength of my youth.
Seyton!
Sir, I’m puzzled by what you just said.
Are you her husband, boy?
There’s still a spot here.
Not for Cadwallader and all his goats.
There, take that, you scoundrel!
Having already thought about the fact that she would have to die sometime, I can endure her death now.
You’ll introduce me to him as a eunuch.
Someone else has the same name, but he’s a better man.
When Caesar says “do this,” it is done.
You will feel the loss, but the man you weep for will feel nothing.
Be quiet!  
Yes, I’m sure he will—to stay with you.
They’re saying I’d be an animal without a heart if I stayed home today out of fear.
Oh, will you leave me alone in the dark?
Not yet.
I’ve only done my duty.
Yes, my good lord.
I know I ought to obey my husband, but not now.
He’s a good man.—Let’s go, Desdemona.
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
C’mon, I might as well say the fool’s the fool!
What can you do but be happy?
If I break the door down, slave, you’ll be sorry for this.
I’ll leave you for now.
He’s more of a soldier than a wise man.  
So it is on earth.
So I’ll stay here for a while.
Listen to the noble Antony.
toward his own father who loves him so completely.
This is a nasty night to go swimming.
That’s some nap.
Now please, tell Beatrice to come out.
Down with the Capulets!
Your highness, I want nothing more than what you’ve already offered.
I think I hear the drums far away.
What villains did this to you?
I’m at your service.
So go on, tell me the news.
If you got what you deserved, you would learn some respect.
For we may take pity on you, even if we can’t pardon you.
Amen to that.
Get up, man!
I really don’t know.
No, by Saint Jamy, I’ll bet you a penny!
You’re going to pay for this, Roderigo.
I swear I thought you meant you’d been hurt physically.
And whatever we do, we can lay all the blame on the drunken servants.
Do so.
From down here, I thought his eyes looked like full moons.
And then?
You stopped me.
That’s terrible!
You sing, and I’ll dance.
Don’t let her say I kept you.
I’d obey even if she were my mother ten times over.
Go tell the king I want to talk to him for a few minutes.
Now, though, in all of Rome, there’s room for only one man.
Your words and actions don’t match up.
Welcome, Publius.
She’s well.
Didn’t you clearly say “Knock,” “pound,” and “put your fists to work”?
Forget your epilogue.
When he leaves, it’s very important that I talk to you.
His spirits are listening to me, but I can’t help cursing him anyway.
My lord, most humbly on bended knee I beg you to grant me the leading of the vanguard.
There’s certainly not a boy left alive, and it was done by the cowardly rascals who were running from the battle.
That, stirred up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Morton, he’s coming to England to claim the crown.
I have to go.
I should go to the barber’s, monsieur, because I think I’m getting really hairy around the face.
So you’re admitting Clarence, my father, is dead.
Thank God, thank God!
Make a bug show of mourning for her, hang sad epitaphs up at your family’s tomb, and perform all the appropriate burial ceremonies.
Did you hear that?
These lovers are saying some strange things, Theseus.
Goodbye, my husband.
Your English sorrows will make me smile in France.
I’m ready now.
I have a  That’s from lack of sleep.
You gave that handkerchief, the one I loved and gave to you, to Cassio.
You make me so happy.
When things are at their worst they have to stop, or else improve to the way things were before.
March to the bridge.
Here, I’ll tell you my whole plan in my carriage, which is waiting for us at the gate.
I’m saying it to the girl who isn’t here and doesn’t hear me.
What a painful condition responsibility is.
Goodbye to you all.
In exchange for the blood I shed for you then, I ask you for justice now.
Look after my goods and possessions.
This madman will murder me.
You give your best praise to the worst women.
Claudio!
And the doctors say it’s healthy to get up early— I don’t know what the doctors say.
Let it all go.
Yes, we will.
Wait just a minute, you brazen hussy.
Soon all my work will be done, and you’ll be free.
Well, whose is it?
All because of what happened to that brat Rutland?
That’s a good song.
Thanks, good Egeus.
She’ll have to have it.
Monstrous!
Aren’t you my father?
What a horrible world we live in!
Get out, you horrible bastard, or I’ll gouge out your eyes.
No, I’d rather you stayed here.
They intend to challenge us here at Philippi, responding to our challenge before we’ve even challenged him.
Goodbye, nymph.
Oh, mighty Caesar!
Demetrius, I’m ready to fight you as promised.
Then, in my tent, you can elaborate on your complaints, and I’ll listen.
A likely story!
How do you mean?
Not with any sauce they could provide for them.
The world’s gone downhill since fake humility started passing for compliments.
Macbeth is ripe for the picking.
Yes.
Beat the drum.
I’ll copy the embroidery pattern and then give it to Iago.
It’s strongest in the strongest people.
Cut off their heads?
Give me some comfort, Nurse.
Where?
I respect the soul very much, so I disagree with his belief.
I like it better than laughing.
Father, go ahead.
My prayers, you hussy?
Oh, my heart, my heart is rising into my throat!
It’s a miracle you’re alive.
I’m going to cry.
God forbid that I should prevent sacred devotion!
When we’re by ourselves you can call me “Tranio.” Everywhere else, address me as your master Lucentio.
Men who risk everything hope to make profits.
What’s going on, Othello, darling?
Caesar loses supporters wherever he raises money.
Why, last night.
You can’t trust anyone who abuses her own father, her flesh and blood.
Thomas, the earl of Surrey, and he were moving from troop to troop around twilight cheering up the soldiers.
We don’t want you to think we came here to offend you, except that we want to offend you with our good intentions.
But not in heaven.
Doesn’t that rising blush suggest that she is virtuous and innocent?
Invite all my sad captains.
Hunt them down.
Yes, my lord.
Maria, take care of this poor fellow here.
But they aren’t.
My countrymen— Silence!
Yes, my master.
Not a word.
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
No more than twenty-five.
Do you think you’ve got a couple of fools on your hands here?
Here are my keys.—But why should I go?
And if we don’t shake hands, when I act all nice to the players it will seem like I’m happier to see them than you.
Stay here at your own risk.
I want this to provoke confrontations, so I can give him a piece of my mind.
Come on, what did Romeo say?
I am one, my lord.
Any strange beast there can be considered a man.
Hello!
How is my wife?
And when I’m king, remember to ask me for the earldom of Hereford and all the possessions that go with it, which my brother the king used to own.
Pour in the blood of a sow who has eaten her nine offspring.
Some of you go to Decius’s house and some to Casca’s.
I don’t feel any urge to see a more handsome man than this one.
The general got rid of us early tonight so he could be with Desdemona.—I can’t blame him.
Will you cry?
What about it?
Who pleaded with me to pardon 
His life was gentle, and the elements mixed so well in him that Nature might stand up and say to all the world, “This was a man.” Let’s treat him according to his virtue, with all the respect and rituals of burial.
They were nearly killing each other, as you saw when you pulled them apart.
Swear you won’t.
It might as well be the same with Caesar.
Let me shake your hand.
I’ll drink to her as long as there’s a hole in my throat and booze in Illyria.
Cassio’s a good friend of mine—My lord, I can see you’re upset.
What’s the matter?
My good lord— You’ve always been a liar.
Now that he’s old, we can expect to have to deal not only with his old character flaws, which have turned into deep-rooted habits, but also with the uncontrollable crabbiness that comes with old age.
Remorseless, treacherous, sex-obsessed, unnatural villain!
My noble brother!
If I do so, it will mean more if I say it behind your back than if I say it to your face.
Keep my lover quiet.
The mayor is here at hand.
I do, Mark Antony.
If I decide to get angry at you, just watch out— You’d be done for then, monster.
It’s mine and I’m going to get it.
Hold on, then.
Death is my son-in-law.
So if we know that a man is a thief, should we try to arrest him?
I’ll do it, sir.
Step aside.
Live, live!
That’s definitely too old.
And it’s good to have joy in such a joyless time.
And the poor old man just wept, mixing his tears with the rain.
Fool, I say!
Why, Caesar straddles the narrow world like a giant, and we petty men walk under his huge legs and look forward only to dying dishonorably, as slaves.
I hope he’s not anywhere so disreputable that thugs like you can find him.
I admit that in front of you, my lady, she keeps a bit quiet.
But, uncle, you know how to bear with him.
Come on, you and I will go soon.
What are the chances of his getting better, lords?
Three words, dear Romeo, and then it’s good night for real.
Tomorrow’s a good day.
Oh, dear!
I know I’m not fooling myself, or letting myself get carried away by my imagination, because every clue points to the fact that Lady Olivia loves me.
Horns?
Go ahead, then.
Hitting his wife?
He can sniff his way to Dover.
Goneril would go crazy if I chose Regan, but it would be hard to get in with Goneril while her husband’s still alive.
I’m proud to be Sir Rowland’s son—his youngest son—and I would never change that, not even to be Frederick’s adopted heir.
Do not, Phoebe.
Come on, Iago.
Yes, sir.
Good and noble young man, don’t mess with someone who’s desperate.
Why, dear child?
Peter!
My lady told me to tell you that while she lets you stay at her house because you’re a relative, she doesn’t approve of your behavior.
I’ll sleep here until morning.
What do you think about it?
That’s already been done, sir.
What would you do about it?
Yeah, so?
Stand back, boy.
Now the inconstant moon has nothing to do with me.
To, to, to— To murder me?
Yeah, and he’s going to tame her.
It would follow from this that the cat should stay home.
Some to Ligarius’s.
I know what I’m talking about.
Son, I’ll stake you half that Bianca comes.
Let me go, gentlemen.
Where’s the jury, the judge, the lawful proceedings, the verdict?
Here she comes, the brilliant fool-catcher.
What’s that?
Well, but what time is it?
All right, I understand.
Go to the harbor immediately!
I’m going now.
The Count Claudio will marry Leonato’s daughter.
Let’s proceed.
Am I a married man or a bachelor?
A fortunate coincidence—more fortunate for your son.
Oh, Antony, Antony, Antony!
You would make a nasty suitor.
If he will grant me conquered Egypt, so that I may give it to my son, I will kneel to him with thanks.
Oh, where have you led me, Egypt?
I have no opinion about him.
Oh, evil, evil!
Tybalt, that murderer, which way did he run?
Truly, no—no more than is reasonable.
Yes, that’s me.
But give words a chance.
Whether you bite to kill, Mastiff, greyhound, or ugly mutt,
You were born from a woman.
So cheer up.
If there’s enough wind for a ship to sail out tonight, I won’t spend tonight in this town.
You’re a spirit, I know.
He’s dead.
Go be with your love, as it was decided at your wedding.
How many noblemen were killed in the battle you just fought?
I think you are.
Macbeth.
Oh, let me kiss his hand!
What didn’t you like?
Thanks for telling me.
Really, I think your other ruff is better.
Not until you pass out.
The letters he spoke of may help me.
Why do you say that?
We chase everything in life more excitedly than we actually enjoy it when we get it.
For the love of God, be patient with him.
Your words, like your wounds, bring you honor.
Flies are healthier and more honorable and better suited for romance than Romeo.
You don’t have to go yet.
Telling you where he’s sleeping is like telling you where I’m lying.
Come out, you frightened man.
then I hope I have a life of misery!
That’s exactly what they said.
Here comes your father.
Tybalt was my dearest cousin.
Hurt him in eleven different places.
What kind of god is ceremony, which suffers more than its worshippers do?
Everything’s OK.
No, my lord.
You know how young my daughter is.
Master Fer!
For my brother Edward’s sake.
Have you done everything you could to make him tell you the reason?
Although many people said she looked like me, she was considered beautiful.
Call him in.
Do I blame Nature for being so thrifty?
The sun will not appear today.
Oh luck, luck.
I hereby declare we will have no more marriage.
Our regiments are full to the brim; our cause is ready.
Whatever pertains to myself I will deal with last.
Ah, soldier!
May He bless you, too.
I won’t bother you.
Why not?
The Turkish navy will be broken up.
He’s staying in the forest with your father now.
Well then, I know who you are.
I’m off.
Oh, heaven help me!
The adult snake lies in the ditch.
Bring us some wine!
What?
No, you can’t do that until you take her hand and, in front of this friar, swear to marry her.
Yes, my lord, quite well.
There’s nothing to fear in him.
Two thousand ducats a year from his land! 
Is that the naked guy?
I got this purse full of money from you, and my Dromio brought it to me.
I met this man with my glove in his cap, and I have been as good as my word.
You lie, you nasty, ungrateful thing!
Oh, please be true, please let it be that this man has mistaken me for you, my dear brother!
I’ll do it even if I find you in the company of the king himself.
But what do I care about words?
Please find a way to give me some time alone with Desdemona, if you think that’s all right.
I can’t remember anything I’ve ever done to offend anyone.
Yes.
Come, let’s be off!
He’s pretty awful in the morning when he’s sobering up, and even worse in the afternoon when he’s drunk.
I know she is a hateful, brawling scold.
But here comes Antony.
I learned it in England, where they have a talent for drinking.
If you choose the one that contains my picture, we’ll be married right away.
I did it myself.
Who is this fool who wants all the fuss of marriage?
This one?
Oh, come on now, Kate.
Get the lady out of here.
Who should now pay the price for Mercutio’s life?
Bless your heart.
What a horrible day!
My arm is sore.
Catesby, fly to the duke.
Easily, madam.
If that’s the case, tears wash my eyes more than hers.
Good, I’m satisfied.
That’s Claudio.
If he doesn’t like it, he can go live with my sister.
They don’t want you to go out today.
Fierce, fiery warriors fought in the clouds in the usual formations of war—ranks and squadrons—until the clouds drizzled blood onto the Capitol.
He’s running bareheaded, calling for the end of the world, out there on a night like this, when even savage animals ravenous with hunger crawl under cover and hide.
Give me your present to give to Master Bassanio.
Too bad it’s spoiling our pleasure tonight.
It goes along with being born to greatness, but it makes you get badmouthed by every fool who only has his own suffering to care about.
Then if they’re negligent, we could control them.
To this day, the kings of France follow this unspoken rule, even though they point to this Salic law to bar your Highness from inheriting it through the female line.
You just missed a fight that was barely avoided.
And good ones, too.
I overlooked your request, but I did not deny it.
Besides, you’re a sponge!
He was dressed like a hunter.
Even though she’s as similar to Goneril as one crabapple is like another, still… I know what I know.
I was with the heroes Hercules and Cadmus once, when their Spartan hunting dogs cornered a bear.
To be good-looking is a matter of luck, but to read and write is a natural gift.
With this I avoid the grief of Antony’s death.
I’ll run away from you and hide in the bushes, and leave you to the mercy of wild animals.
When you see a huge wheel rolling down a hill, you shouldn’t try to hold on to it or it’ll break your neck.
And time itself is ended.
But I wish I could say that’s the last time he’ll do it!
We can be happy that things have been resolved so agreeably.
You do Stay, Please, tell me what you think of me.
If you say it isn’t true, I’ll give you a province and make you rich.
If I’m lying, then
She’s yours.—Come, Ariel!
Crude slaves with greasy aprons, rulers, and hammers shall lift us up so everyone can see.
She’s desperate.
Come with me, Silvius.
What’s going on, daughter?
Go escort the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
So I’ll have nothing to do with that gaudy gold box—it’s like the gold that Midas couldn’t eat.
Oh, Hamlet, how far she fell!
Give me my fan, Peter.
You call yourself my wife, yet you don’t call me “husband”?
Whatever has already been done can’t be undone now.
I can put him in the right mood, and I’ll bring him to the Capitol.
Oh, I wish she knew how much I love her.
Go, blockheads, go, and bring my supper to me.  
Oh, the world never saw a sweeter creature.
That is exactly why we wanted you here, your lordship—to avoid the public carping and complaints.
You’ve lost your resolve.
Pompey has a strong navy.
Watch her.
Please, sir, don’t trouble yourself.
Retreat further, my lord, retreat further.
Is this the madman?
I’m very glad about that.
You say you don’t know what the girl thinks.
What I’m saying can’t anger him.
I remember this fellow—he once played the eldest son of a farmer.
Please, be cheerful.
What, are we having a feast?
So let’s join forces and get revenge.
I’ll leave now, to set all these things right.
I am their father’s mother.
I think that Macedon is indeed where Alexander was born.
Well, I’m the man you’re speaking of.
Go ahead, do your worst.
We are responsible for this. 
Yes, ma'am, we have.
Handkerchief—confessions—handkerchief!
Lorenzo, that’s for sure, and I’m also sure you’re my love—who else do I love so much?
I’ll watch this play.
That’s the next thing on the agenda.
That is a certain truth.
Now he lies there worth nothing, and no one is so humble as to show him respect.
For Hecuba!
Roderigo!
This poor guy’s partly confessed his plan.
I have to tell you everything.
No you haven’t, cousin.
Liberty!
Oh, it’s too terrible.
Anyone who has a house to cover his head has a good head on his shoulders.
Now go find the forest ranger.
Don’t disturb the heavens any more by trying to go against heaven’s will.
Her bottom.
While you were dazed by grief—which isn’t appropriate for a man like you—Cassio showed up here.
Swear by my sword you’ll never mention what you’ve heard.
By this sword” is an oath, and oaths must be kept.
Here he comes.
I saw Othello’s true face when I saw his mind.
The highest-ranking?
We did, my lord, weeping and carrying on about the sobbing deer.
Metellus Cimber?
You have wonderful armor, but give my horse his due.
Alas, I am the mother of all these others' griefs.
If this logic works, that’s great.
I wish I’d been there.
In God’s name, I beg you not to wish for one more man.
This choice was as foolish as they are.
And even then, in order for me to catch the fly your cousin, she must be blind?
Please do, madam.
Well, for your good looks, sir, thank God and don’t boast about it.
Alas, grim death, how vile and ugly your near-twin, sleep, is!
I met the young man at Lawrence’s cell.
Oh, sirs, if I stirred your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage, I would offend Brutus and Cassius, who, you all know, are honorable men.
Romeo has been banished.” That news brings infinite death.
I came here with a fool’s head on my shoulders and now I’m leaving with two.—Goodbye, sweet lady.
I won’t sleep until I’ve delivered your letter, my lord.
Make sure the ones who have wronged you suffer too.
And that’s all there is to it.
What do you mean?
I’m off to visit my friends in Padua—particularly my best friend Hortensio.
The priest is already there.
The gates of mercy will be closed by then, and harsh and hard-hearted soldiers, who have tasted blood, will have free reign to commit whatever violence they want, mowing down your lovely young virgins and budding infants.
As old and white-haired as you are, and you’re such a traitor?
If you say that, you bastard, you’ll kill your Queen.
Shylock, they’re offering you three times the money you lent.
Don’t listen to him, Emilia, even though he’s your husband.
We come here to help you and you treat us like thugs, but you let an African horse climb all over your daughter.
Will you play this recorder?
Right over to that  I hope he enjoys her.
My old brain is troubled.
We’ve got some words of wisdom to mull over.
Are you crazy?
I have it ready for you.
Madam, you’ve given me life and given me a living too.
It was a good and lucky vision.
Unless you can also teach me how to forget my banished father, you shouldn’t try to teach me how to be happy.
No, you can’t sign a contract like that for me!
Yes, what about him?
More than anything else in the world, I love you, value you, and honor you.
For what?
I’m out of patience.
That way we can conceal how many of us there are, and Macbeth’s spies will give him inaccurate reports.
Welcome, sir.
I’d try it, if I could cry “hem” and have him.
Have you sent anyone to Bottom’s house?
There’s no face more sincere than one washed in tears.
Think about it.
Well, I’m sorry for you, gentle Silvius.
I’ll vouch for that.
We respected the beat of the song, sir.
Oh, do not wish one more!
Word is that Richmond is the navy’s admiral.
Well, what’s going on, mister?
God gives those gifts—I had nothing to do with it.
There’s no bravery in an unfair fight.
A sculptor or a painter couldn’t have screwed him up as bad as that, even as an apprentice.
What’s going on, Rosalind?
I’ve had very little joy as England’s queen.  
Go find the traitor Gloucester.
But I’m as immovable as the northern star, whose stable and stationary quality has no equal in the sky.
It doesn’t excuse your cruel behavior.
Yes, I guarantee he won’t drown—even if this ship were as fragile as an eggshell and as leaky as a menstruating woman.
Who are you?
I guess now she’s going to be my sister-in-law and not my wife.
Look how lush and healthy the grass is!
Tonight I’ll throw through his window a few letters in different handwriting—as if they came from several citizens—all testifying to the great respect Romans have for Brutus, and all alluding to Caesar’s unseemly ambition.
Where’s the king?
I saw Bassanio sail away, and Gratiano went with him.
I also hope that we can be better strangers.
All right, then.
I’ll be more jealous of you than a wild rooster over his hen; more noisy than a parrot chattering about the rain; more fond of new things than an ape; more giddy about getting what I want than a monkey.
The wind that scatters young men throughout the world, encouraging them to seek their fortunes some place other than home, where there’s little to be found in the way of experience.
What about you?
Here come the conspirators.
And here he comes, puffing himself up like a turkey.
What did you mean by giving me this handkerchief?
Don’t laugh at me, but I swear I think this lady is my child Cordelia.
No, no, with God’s help, his son will be king.
Ha!
Master, should I watch the door?
They are my daylight, my life.
Keep an eye on Cinna.
I know the real reason.
No Corin, since you’re old, you cannot guess—even if you were as dedicated a lover in your youth as there ever was, sighing and mooning all night long.
Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help!
I owe you nothing until I receive the necklace.
Listen to our horses neighing, longing to be working.
Go!
I beg your 
All I’m asking for is to have that little human boy as part of my crew.
No, not at all.
What kind of loyalty is this?
The ones you’ve sent our lunatic king to.
Sweet Phoebe, have pity on me.
He is as full of courage as of kindness, princely in both.
Come and see the proof.
No, the legs and thighs.
Hey, naked guy— Poor Tom’s chilly.
Will he bring his army?
What an ass I am.
We’re available.
Very well.
If we happen to offend you, it’s because we want to.
I told you, someone’s at the gate.
Watch his reaction.
Did he express any dissatisfaction with you, either in his words or his face?
What do you want?
Don’t spoil the justness and virtue of our endeavor nor weaken our own irrepressible spirits by thinking that we need a binding oath, when the blood that every noble Roman contains within him would be proven bastard’s blood if he broke the smallest part of any promise he had made.
Oh, dear.
Dromio, bring this money to the Centaur Inn, where we’re lodging, and wait there until I come.
Oh, that’s a joke made out of leather that spreads itself thin, from the width of an inch to as fat as a yard.
What, all my children and their mother dead in one fell swoop?
Leave him to my wrath.—Edmund, go with my sister-in-law.
No more, no more.
Here’s the water, right?
Before I open this letter, please tell me how my good friend is doing.
No, it was just a dream.
Should we watch this ridiculous scene?
I’m doing so.
Oh, Julius Caesar, you are still powerful.
I’ll see them safely married first and then hurry back to my master’s.
He’s not telling the truth.
If this dream vision is typical of what this island conjures up, then I’ll lose my son twice.
I’ve got no food to give you.
Here’s some more news coming in.
And didn’t they place the wreath of victory on my brow and order me to give it to you?
Your mother’s name has become a threat to her own children.
I won’t bother with it.
May God in His mercy forgive you.
I’m just stating the facts as I see them.
And I won’t be there either.—Edmund, I’m told you’ve acted like a true son to your father.
Kate is as straight and slender as a hazel-twig, her hair as brown as hazelnut shells, and she herself sweeter than the kernels.
Murderer!
When you weren’t at home, the Senate sent out three different search parties to find you.
The gentleman who serves you only for profit And is only superficially loyal to you Will take off when it starts to rain And leave you alone in the storm.
Then I guess beggars are the ones with bodies, while ambitious kings and heroes are just the shadows of beggars.
I should have waited to tell you my news.
And that would get us all executed.
Should we see what he thinks?
Decius Brutus doesn’t love you.
No, it’s certain, Iras.
There’s no crab-apple here, so don’t look sour.
Do you need something?
Today he fought as though he were a god who hated mankind.
Oh, go, leave me.
If you look closely at Alexander’s life, Harry of Monmouth’s stands up fairly well by comparison—for there are analogies in everything.
If I can find any animal in this wild forest, I’ll either be food for it or bring it as food for you.
I watched him very closely.
Please make him change his mind.
It just appeared before them and marched past them with slow dignity three times, a staff’s distance from their amazed eyes, while they turned, quaking with fear and too shocked to speak.
Their guilt is finally starting to gnaw at them, like a slow-acting poison.
Can your man keep a secret?
Oh, one child is one too many!
I think you’re trustworthy one minute and then not the next.
Tonight in Harfleur we will be your guest; tomorrow we’ll march on.
Nothing.
You did it?
Nym, what you say is true.
You’re in trouble either way.
Don’t trust Trebonius.
Once again, what’s the news?
You didn’t want to go then!
My husband said she was unfaithful!
If he says anything against me, I’ll humble him, even if he were stronger than he is—and twenty punks like him.
The wiser the woman, the wilder.
Antipholus has gone insane, no question about it.
Like a young man who wants to amount to something, this morning begins early.
If you tickle us, don’t we laugh?
Now I’ll ask Cassio about Bianca, a prostitute who sells her body for food and clothes.
Goodbye, good Mr. Love.
We’re lucky that Rome is rid of him.
And why, wise lady?
A lovely, cunning shore can distract a man from the perils of a stormy sea, just as a pretty scarf can hide a dangerous dark-skinned beauty.
Listen, Guildenstern, and you too, Rosencrantz—listen as close as you can!
I admire your efforts, and all of you will share the rewards.
Will you listen to me, Roderigo?
Sir, is everyone in your family at home?
That’s why you sleep so soundly.
What’s the trouble?
My God, that’s my handkerchief!
There’s some gentleman out there.— Good Sir Toby!
You agreed to send me troops and weapons when I needed them.
Where’s my son Edmund?
Isn’t it possible to imagine that the noble ashes of Alexander the Great could end up plugging a hole in a barrel?
How did you get better?
Then you’ll be able to cheer  If he were dead, what would happen to me?
Tybalt, I have a reason to love you that lets me put aside the rage I should feel and excuse that insult.
She will purchase that peace with an everlasting war.
The table is full on both sides.
You’re going to rest while you’re still damned?
Then the liars are fools, for there are enough liars in the world to beat up the honest men and hang them.
How will you get proof?
I’m neither, my lord.
What was that thing I saw moving away from you up on the cliff before you fell?
Is he attacking the heartland of Poland or some frontier?
Come, come, hurry up.
When they see the face of Caesar, they will vanish.
You can’t blame anyone for it anyone, I say.
She blushes from guilt, not modesty.
What are you, girl?
Pretty lady, I’m much ashamed of your shocking behavior.
If that’s all, gentlemen, I see no problem.
Oh, Iras, Charmian!
For you, our swords have blunt edges, too dull to harm you, Mark Antony.
The prince of Arragon has taken his oath, and he’s coming to make his choice now.
Make it eight and eight.
Why do you spit at me?
Oh, has it come to this?
Well, then, we’re awake.
Gentlemanly manners have more sway around here than force does.
What would that be?
I’ll think of something.
The curfew-bell rang.
What do you mean by all this?
She’s probably right.
Yes.
Sir, he may still be alive.
And when she does, he’ll imagine she’s flirting with him.
Won’t we, Sir Andrew?
Enough.
They certainly will.
I just meant that you should use some holy thistle.
This was the most unkind cut of all.
Let go of it!
My words would bounce her to my sweet love, and his words would bounce her back to me.
You’re sure the handwriting is your brother’s?
And like I am for Ganymede.
Yes, very well.
You wouldn’t have dared to tempt him so.
And in public too.
Well then, improve your situation with a show of courage.
She was here just now.
But I have to remember that I’m here on Earth, where doing evil is often praised, and doing good is sometimes a stupid and dangerous mistake.
Come on, be a man.
He really plays well.
He talks nothing but nonsense.
And what is the subject?
And where’s Cordelia?— Do you see this, Kent?
Oh, he’s acting just like Juliet, just like her.
No epilogue, please.
Draw your sword, scoundrel.
Banquo, if your soul is going to make it to heaven, tonight’s the night.
The drink, the drink!
Get that fool out of here.
Your wife wouldn’t like it if she were here to hear you make that offer.
I don’t think it’s a good idea.
Get up, liar.
I’m sorry, Malvolio, but this isn’t my writing, though I admit it looks like mine.
If we take away Caesar’s support, he’ll have to come back down to earth; otherwise, he’ll fly too high and keep the rest of us in a state of fear and obedience.
No.
Oh, you mighty gods! 
Do you get what I’m saying, Reynaldo?
The rooster has already crowed twice.
My soul is full of sorrow.
You’re like the poor cat in the old story.
She has the patience of a  I’ll see you hanged on Sunday first!
Not tonight, Iago.
I bet my life some evil busybody, some meddling, lying jerk made up this rumor to get some position.
What a man!—especially compared to my husband.
You said she slept with Cassio.
Were you thinking of spending the night here?
Oh, I thank my lucky stars, I’m so happy.
Terrible.
Yes, now I’m in Arden, and that makes me the bigger fool.
It’s pointless to talk now.
More of us are here.
She can’t possibly have done you any wrong.
Do I ask you to follow me?
She’s a perfect woman, it’s true.
Why are you acting so brazen toward my lady?
There’ll be hell to pay for this.
That’s the way of the world.
Most noble Antony!
Let me embrace the father of Lucentio, and then we’ll journey on to see your son, who will rejoice at your arrival.
And what if they won’t go?
But still, she’s going to kill you for being gone so long.
Wouldn’t it be better—since I’m unusually tall for a woman—to dress myself like a man?
I’ve noticed it myself.
Adultery?
So she was moved by it?
Bassanio, let him have the ring.
It is.
I’m telling you, it’s hers.
What’s this!
You’d make a good fool.
But what’s this I see?
Come, blade, drench my breast with blood.
I’ll tell you before you have to ask me again.
You’ll have wine enough, my lord, soon.
Goodbye!
I might wake you up in a while to send you on an errand to my brother Cassius.
Me too, Lord!    
I’m here, full of anger, to complain about my daughter Hermia.—Step forward, Demetrius.—My lord, this man, Demetrius, has my permission to marry her.—Step forward, Lysander.—But this other man, Lysander, has cast a magic spell over my child’s heart.—You, you, Lysander, you’ve given her poems, and exchanged tokens of love with my daughter.
Where’s my fool?
No one.
I remember.
Please stop, sir.
Your words have moved me, and maybe it’ll do some good.
He meant he did nothing right for me—which is true, unfortunately.
He’s dressed like a freak, a total freak, and not at all like a proper footman or a gentleman’s valet.
It takes a good priest to practice what he preaches.
Give me your hand.
She will be the bond that joins our kingdoms and our hearts.
Leave her to God and her own guilt.
I’ll disguise myself as you and pour out “my” feelings to Hero, taking her prisoner with the force of my love story.
She is not, madam.
Yes, if it doesn’t stand still.
I must go in. 
The young generation rises while the old one falls.
I doubt it, since you weren’t even three at the time.
What’s the news!
And even if they don’t, at least Hero’s supposed death will stop the rumors of her infidelity.
You’re pale and trembling.
Oh, I wish I had my rosary!
Can I have a word with you?
Are all the cups and glasses in their places, the tablecloths laid out—everything in order?
Yes, let’s go to sleep.
With all my heart, I give you that thing which, if you didn’t already have it, I’d try with all my heart to keep from you.
For eighty-one weeks he will waste away in agony.
Thank you for saying that.
Does Leonato have a son, my lord?
He was in bed with— With her?
Drawing your sword on a woman?
This hasn’t reached the level of an Egyptian feast yet.
But I’ve often heard him argue that when sons are at their prime and their fathers are declining, the sons should be their fathers' guardians and manage their fathers' money.
What’s the boy Malcolm?
No man must know.” What comes after that?
Sinful Macduff, they were killed because of you!
You have a daughter named Elizabeth, who is virtuous and beautiful, aristocratic and full of grace.
I hate no-good drunks.
I won’t miss any chance to send my love to you.
Do whatever you want, and I’ll say your insults are just a bad mood.
Your eyes are playing tricks on you.
Well, anyway, goodbye.
A victory in battle is twice as victorious when all the soldiers return home safely.
I said “your husband.”—Do you understand that word?
What’s wrong?
Yes, unfortunately.
One of our ships has reported that it saw most of their fleet shipwrecked.
Madam, please be patient.
Judging from his appearance, I bet he can tell us the latest news about the revolt.
You abused me to my face.
Does he look as bright and handsome as the day we saw him wrestling?
Oh, lady, speak again.
Love will give me strength, and strength will help me accomplish this plan.
Why, then, it’s time to put on my armor and instruct the troops. 
Show yourself in the form of a sigh.
Oh, father, I’m taking care of your business.
Don’t even think about refusing.
You’re standing.
Nice to see you again, Horatio—that is your name, right?
Protect me, my friends.
From now on this is what I’ll think of your love.
I’ll read you a sermon.
If you’re just insane, then get out of here.
Romeo is coming.
And I wouldn’t ask for any dowry except for her to play another trick like this one.
Why Dover?
And how did she react to all this?
I bet it will.
You come here with letters against the king, and you take his conceited daughter’s side against his royal highness.
You belong to her.
What’s wrong with you?
A hundred and sixty-eight hours?
You gentle Romans— Quiet there!
That’s what I’m afraid of.
I swear, somehow the fool has been cheated out of all my money.
Why are they shouting?
You’re welcome here.
Oh, cut my bodice-staps so that my pent-up heart can have some room to breathe, or I’ll faint from this deadly news!
First let me talk with this philosopher here.—
Oh, how awful!
Or thorn-bushes.
No, really, I’m not.
Yes, my lord.
Ah, dear Nature, my goddess, listen to me!
Our troops are deployed tomorrow.
And though his feelings may be pitched higher than ours, when they plummet, they plummet that much farther.
I hope you’re not drowned.
Then you can hear my news, as dessert.
Well then, I’ll do it.
But I do think it’s the husband’s fault if we wives cheat on them.
I am friends with you all and love you all, on one condition—that you prove to me that Caesar was dangerous.
I won’t refuse you anything.
Enough, cousin.
Yes, madam, that’s the one.
In just an hour from now, Duchess of York, I’ll be saluting you as the mother of two beautiful queens.
I’m sure I can guess.
Nothing?
Get out, you horrible poison.
So don’t advise me.
Now, Antony, our prayers have been answered.
Huntsman, look after my hounds.
If that’s true, I think the same thing about you.
Which plays, what music?
And we will raise your wages.
Look, Lucius, here’s the book I was searching for.
Men may sleep, and when they do they may have their throats with them, and some people say knives have blades.
He intends to do something bad to you.
Consider how young you are, and question your feelings.
But since this has happened, you should fix it for your own good.
Well, other men have bad luck too.
Go back to bed.
Once she exclaimed, “Sisters, sisters, shame on you!
My lord?
Caesar himself is in trouble and there are more adversaries than we expected.
To hell with this idiot!
They have a massive army.
How dare you talk about kindness or shame.
Are you talking about young Master Launcelot?
I wish I could give you the little strength that I have.
We’re off, Biondello.
I’ll go my own way.
Come out, beautiful sun—until I’ve bought a mirror to admire my reflection in, I’ll watch my shadow as I stroll along.
Give me Bianca for my inheritance.
Fa, sol, la, mi.
No, go ahead and take my life.
Look, here it is.
What is his name?
There are women like that out there, no question.
This is good.
She has royal blood.
Go, and hurry back to bring us her reply and news of her state of mind. 
But, sir, here comes your servant.
I’m not.
Am I your servant?
Hey!
My father’s dead, and his fortune is mine now.
Whether you’re a good spirit or a cursed demon, whether you bring heavenly breezes or blasts of hell fire, whether your intentions are good or evil, you look so strange I want to talk to you.
It’s better to be the person who gets murdered than to be the killer and be tormented with anxiety.
Duke Solinus, my husband, and both my children—and you two Dromios, who marked the day of my sons' births with your own—come into the abbey with me for a new christening.
But there was a rumor—you know, people always gossip about royalty—that he was in love with the beautiful Olivia.
For standing up for this unpopular king.
The higher the Nile flows, the better the harvest.
As for myself, it was Greek to me.
Pay attention to the music.
And wanted to see you with laces crisscrossed over your legs.” Crisscrossed?
Take him away!
He followed you.
Go with me to the tomb.
What would the King of Naples do if he heard you say that?
But first I’ll release the fairy queen from the spell.
I’ll tell the Queen the reason for our quick departure and get her permission to leave.
Tell him that when our noble father, the duke of York, gave his three sons his blessing, he never imagined that our friendship would come to this.
My father had a daughter who loved a man in the same way that I might love you, if I were a woman.
I’ll come back.
Wait for me there.
Why, no, boy.
A little bit of grief shows a lot of love.
Please, just wait a minute.
That’s worse.
What if she’s pretty but stupid?
He’s left them to you and to your heirs forever—public pleasures in which you will be able to stroll and relax.
Come on.
Have you seen Master Lorenzo!
Get going now.
They want to talk.
What’s the matter?
The servants, the duke, and your daughter all seem to be treating you less kindly.
Not the one I gave you, I hope.
Have Montjoy hurry, then, Lord Constable, and have him ask the king of England what he is willing to pay us to get out of the war.
Stay here, Titinius.
Macbeth!
We’ll answer.
Thieves!
I like him very well.
Oh God, what a heinous sinner I am, being ashamed to be my father’s child!
We’re near his room now.
Do it now.
The world’s a liar.
You foolish madman, listen to me for a moment.
These times of pain are bad times for romance.
Agreed.
Will you kill him then?
Wherever we go, men will smile at us while hiding daggers.
You’re going to die.
How the hell does he know our language?
So be it.
This strong poison’s overpowering me.
Come talk to me tomorrow as early as you can.—Come with me, my dear love.
They’re lying over there, and the poor old man, their father, weeps so piteously over them that the whole audience has joined him in grieving.
I’m coming.
Does she?
Is my father well?
To die for adultery?
I had put bitter wormwood on my breast as I was sitting in the sun, under the wall of the dovehouse.
But I’m a hired hand
I have as much of our father in me as you do, though I admit you’re closer to him and matter more because you’re older.
If there’s any good deed I can do that will bring you peace and me honor, speak to me.
I’m sending you to England on diplomatic business, and Hamlet will go with you.
By the Lord who raised me to this weighty post from the happy and carefree life I used to enjoy, I promise you I never did anything to get the king to turn against the duke of Clarence.
We’ll have the barber trim it later, along with your beard.
Whose was it?
Within the next three days I want to hear you tell me that Cassio’s dead.
You go and take care of your business (since everybody has some business to take care of, whatever it is worth), and I’ll go and pray.
So don’t spend one night away from this house.
The services I have done for the Venetian government will count for more than his complaints will.
You had a Clarence, too, and Richard killed him.
Wait, here’s a penny to heal your head.
I don’t know, and he won’t tell me.
I’ll head to France soon.
I’m begging you.
Then take this man into your service, Octavius, for he did the final service to my master.
Let me deal with this.
I’ll put up my shield and battle you.
I’m really worried about that.
Do you have in there the pretty snake of the Nile that kills without pain?
You feel love because you feel lust and you have no willpower.
Keep your word.
He’s talking with the bogus father about the bogus son.
Yes, this is what love does.
My servant!
Good morning, General.
I swear on my life and honor, he’ll sit here in the stocks until noon.
Is that true?
When the poor cried, Caesar cried too.
Excuse me?  
No, let’s follow him.
Why is that?
You left him out in the storm in the black night, bareheaded, a storm so terrible that if it had happened at sea, the waters would have risen up and extinguished the fire burning in the stars.
Then think about how shameful it would be for you to give in to his seductive talk and surrender your treasure chest to his greedy hands.
I wish you could just stammer this hidden man out of your mouth like wine out of a narrow-necked bottle
Are you familiar with the case currently before the court?
By Isis, I’ll give you bloody teeth if you ever compare Caesar with Antony, my best man among men. 
I’ve seen her claim to be dying twenty times before, and for far less reason.
Oh heaven, oh earth, witness what I’m about to say, and reward me if I tell the truth!
Here is a friar who’s trembling, sighing and weeping.
A witty if a cynical reply.
My murders will never come back to threaten me until the forest of Birnam gets up and moves, and I will be king for my entire natural life.
No, it wasn’t.
St. George loses his holiness once  Then, by myself— You’ve misused yourself.
Tell me where you learned these strange things, and why you stop us at this desolate place with this prophetic greeting?
You’ll beat me?
But you’re still my child, my flesh and blood—or rather you’re a disease in my flesh, a disease I still have to call my own.
Damn that dirty black coalminer of a devil!
What is it, my dear Bianca?
We’ll go to the river.
No, I don’t know you, and my lady didn’t send me to get you, and I’m not supposed to tell you to come speak with her, and your name is not Master Cesario, and this is not my nose, either.
Mountains don’t tremble, however much the wind may blow!
Calm down, gentle cousin.
It’s time to hide, wretched Margaret.
When Caesar was alive, even he wouldn’t dare anger me like this.
I know I may be old, but I’m strong and healthy, because in my youth I never drank nor lived recklessly.
Yes, please; unleash your wisdom.
Her sighs and tears are like great winds and floods.
Have you come to make confession to this father?
It was just removed from from the heart of—oh, she’s dead!
There will be a feast from five o'clock until eleven.
I swear to you, many members of your mustard family have made my eyes water before.
Today shall always be remembered as a holy day.
Did you see the weird sisters?
Bring him here and ask him.
Help, help, oh, help!
It is.
Yes, my lord.
Stop right now!
Take my hand, Hastings.
Answer me like men.
If he’s angry, there must be something seriously wrong.
Why do people love you?
That’s right, and then after we fixed the moon, we’d go bird-hunting.
Have you heard about anything unusual happening in the city?
It will be as the gods see fit.
Stay inside.
That’s no way to pray.
No one should have an honor he doesn’t deserve.
Your Grace heard their saccharine words, but didn’t take note of their poisonous intentions.
Is tomorrow the 15th of March, boy?
But I know you’d never force me to tell you things I don’t want to, so I should be polite and tell you what I can.
Maud, Bridget, Marian, Ciceley, Gillian, Ginn!
And, if you need to, approach the subject of me
He says his name’s Poor Tom.
But give them all a good dinner and look after them well.
You might just as well say, “That’s a valiant flea that dares to eat its breakfast on the lip of a lion.” Yes, exactly.
They have their exits and their entrances, and in his lifetime a man will play many parts, his life separated into seven acts.
Ha, banishment?
Give me one kiss, and I’ll go down.
Leave.
Say something again.
Oh, that’s a good wish!
Who’s that coming?
Here are forty ducats.
The good manners of the court look as silly in the country as country behavior is laughable at the court.
There is no life, but my love is dead!
I’m more like an ancient Roman than a corrupt modern Dane.
What kept you from telling him this?
Ah, the countess is coming!
One of them is too much like a painting of a man—he never speaks—and the other is too much like a spoiled little boy, always chattering.
How unbelievable!
I can’t recall where I slept last night.
Bring him here dead or alive within the next year, or get out off my land.
Go wake Juliet.
Well, the difference of a horse!
I’d rather give myself up to the hatred of a violent brother who refuses to recognize that we are brothers.
Decius, go tell them that Caesar won’t come.
Tell me, what does he think of our situation?
Now, on my life, the young child must be headed to the Tower to greet the young princes, whom she adores.
Are you a god?
He is the general challenger.
They say he used to fence for the shah of Persia.
I’ve got you now, pagan.
Even in hell you couldn’t find a devil worse than Macbeth.
Happy that we’re not too happy, lucky in being not too lucky.
Are you the slave who, with your slanderous words, killed my innocent child?
And shall our lively blood, quickened by wine, be so frosty?
Oh my, what’s the news?
I will.
Give me that boy and I’ll come with you.
If you don’t need it for some important reason, then give it back to me.
To answer your question, ma'am—yes, he was friendly with those knights.
Then the two of them will both pursue one girl.
Tranio, I think I’ve got it!
I recognize your face perfectly, even without a sailor’s cap on your head.—Take him away.
Will you marry us here, under this tree, or should we follow you to your chapel?
Emilia, go to the castle and tell Othello and Desdemona what happened.—Will you please go now? 
Yes, your Highness.
You can decide that privately.
She’s not good enough for you, then.
Yes, my lord.
I do indeed, my lord.
You should’ve saved me some trouble and taken it away yourself.
The wit you flaunt is like a blunt sword—it can’t hurt anyone, thank God.—My lord, I thank you for your many kindnesses.
Friends, come here.
Why did this have to happen now?
Oh, lying woman!
Stop right now or I’ll throw your dagger over the roof.
Burn!
Many men seek their fortune at seventeen; at eighty, it’s a bit late.
Come on, let’s go see the king.
Curse you for your false appearances!
You notorious whore!
Was he sad or happy?
Yes, by God!
Never apologize—when the actors are all dead, no one can be blamed.
Edmund, where’s your wicked brother?
Yes, madam, he lies beyond my reach.
Dear master, listen to me.
The last time I was in Exeter, the mayor kindly showed me the castle there and called it “ My lord!
As I was standing watch on the hill, I looked toward Birnam, and I thought I saw the forest begin to move.
Command this man to leave.
I take all responsibility for my decisions.
I’m glad you’re insane enough to admit it in front of me.
His heart used to burst the buckles on his breastplate in great fights, but now he’s lost all temperance and dedicates his heart to satisfying the lust of an Egyptian whore.
Some people in the street are crying “Romeo.” Some are crying “Juliet,” and some are crying “Paris.” They’re all running in an open riot toward our tomb.
What is this fuzzy logic?
Madam, he’s well.
Is it a habit of his?
Be careful, Signior Baptista, lest you be made the dupe in this business.
Yes, noble lord.
You gave money to me?
What’s going on?
He would have gotten a pension of six pence a day for his whole life.
Oh, I’ve read that.
Let’s go back to our bedroom.
Cassius, stand firm.
I told him to knock at your gate and for the life of me could not get him to do it.
I fear that your words and your heart are both false.
Here is the money.
I’ll be back here with you by two o'clock.
Not even trivial things were left out.
Then tell her my loving story in simple terms.
He is, my lord.
Stay hidden and listen.
Holy Saint Francis, this is a drastic change!
In that case, I think Cassio’s an honest man.
His eyes used to glow with pride when he reviewed his troops.
It’s clear, every man must take responsibility for the manner of his own death.
You won’t leave this grove until I’ve paid you back for this insult.
But oops, when I let go of your hand, I let go of the biggest joke of all.
Look, let’s stay here tonight.
I grow old, and all dignity has been thrashed out of me.
He who is dizzy thinks the world is spinning”—please, tell me what you meant by that.
Here I am, your slave—a poor, sick, weak, hated old man.
Oh, Antony, you extravagantly generous man, how would you have rewarded me for serving you faithfully when you reward my badness with all of this gold!
Do you have anything else to tell me?
Everyone’s there except Metellus Cimber, and he’s gone to look for you at your house.
I will.
Make these men work.
Were you ever at court, shepherd?
Let me see—what do you think about falling in love?
Well, good luck to them tonight in bed!
We haven’t even talked about who’ll be our torchbearers.
Oh-ho-ho, sir!
That’s good advice.
He was also shocked to learn that on the same day you fought the rebels you also fought against the army of Norway, and that you weren’t the least bit afraid of death, even as you killed everyone around you.
It’s the same kind of guy who got you upset and made you suspect I’d cheated on you with the Moor.
Is she dead?
Remind Richard of this, and he will weep.
Yes?
Well put, Maecenas.
You wrong me even more, sir, by denying it.
I can’t explain it.
Kneel, Romans, kneel, and let’s wash our hands, up to the elbows, in Caesar’s blood and smear it on our swords.
He has always loved Cordelia best, and his bad judgment in disowning her now is obvious.
You will never fall victim to Benedick’s charms, my niece.
I’ll shut up now.
You’re a funny man, sir.
Get her attention and draw her home with music.
His neigh is like a monarch’s command.
She blushes at the slightest thing.
Oh, sweet England!
Is that true, my lords of England?
What, my lord?
Yes, yes.
I’ll do that, because I have to tell my brother how you forgave him, Rosalind.
Have I done something to offend you without knowing it?
And I will give you some more.
I’ve been singing ever since you made your daughters into your mothers by giving them all your power.
Listen to this, King
She was tricked, divorced, wronged, spited, killed!
Charmian!
And what a beard trimmed like the general’s or a rough uniform will do among foaming mugs and brains washed with ale, you wouldn’t believe.
He is definitely not there, sir.
Pick up her bed and carry her ladies out of the tomb.
I’m locked in one of them.
I’ll call it “Bottom’s Dream” because it’s so deep that it has no bottom.
Good luck, sir.
Yes, and the best looking too.
Come on, you’re a fool, and driven to extreme measures by love.
By the future.
Perhaps there’s still some poison on them, to make me die with a medicinal kiss.
I’m not marvelous, sir, but I’m certainly a maiden.
He was a wreck, almost past hope.
I’m always happy to hear about brave men.
There has never been a widow who suffered such loss as me.
There’s a similar mark on her arm. 
I remember kissing her washing stick and the cow’s udders that her pretty, chapped hands had milked.
No, I swear it.
Well, that’s really my job.
This must be some kind of fairyland.
We used to think so too.
That you love my daughter to spite your soul.
And at the base of Pompey’s statue, with his cloak covering his face, which was dripping with blood the whole time, great Caesar fell.
His father was Philip of Macedon, as I remember.
That’s true.
I can’t, ma'am.
How late is it, lords?
But the way he’s divided the kingdom recently, nobody can tell which of the dukes he favors more.
Because he’s daring us to do it.
Oh, the things men dare to do!
Will they stop working when their voices mature?
He brought many captives home to Rome whose ransoms brought wealth to the city.
The will, the will!
It’s definitely Maria’s handwriting.
Your answers are too shallow and too hasty.
Her only flaw—and it’s a big one—is that she’s unbearable, a total witch, so much so that I wouldn’t think of marrying her myself, not even if I were in a worse fix than I am, not for a whole goldmine.
The first time we see the world as newborns, we cry and scream.
I’m sorry to have to say this— Help me away from here, dear Charmian!
Go on, get out of here.
Quiet!
The smell of leek turns my stomach.
You can command a beggar to bow on bended knee, but can you take possession of his health?
But I have a sinking feeling anyway.
If I could make things better by lying, I’d deny it.
Don’t worry about me.
Where should we go?
Now he’ll work himself up to a fury.
You swore to me when I gave it to you that you would wear it till you died, and that it would be buried with you.
Add to these eight thousand four hundred knights, squires, and brave gentlemen, five hundred of whom were given the title of knight only yesterday.
Make the best use of this information you can.
Unfaithful?
Let’s hear what he has to say.
This play isn’t right for you.
Go.
Up to the breach, you dogs!
My gracious king.
Are you sick?
Alright, then I’ll see you at Philippi.
Give my regards to your lady, and tell her to hurry everybody in the house to bed.
He’s not your relative.
The voice kept crying, “Sleep no more!” to everyone in the house.
Wife!
Woman, stop your frantic curses and false prophesies before we run out of patience and do something bad to you.
Beautifully, sir, beautifully!
Look at Macbeth—he’s in a daze.
You’re wrong to kill me for loving you.
And as surely as I am alive, I am a virgin.
But goodbye.
But how wonderful that she should be so fond of Signior Benedick, whom she has always appeared to hate.
My name’s Stephano, and I’ve come to tell you my mistress will arrive here at Belmont before sunrise.
Yes, that’s why you have to die.
He hasn’t done anything to harm you yet.
I don’t know.
Then die and be damned!
Signior Tranio, you also took aim at that bird, though you didn’t hit her.—So here’s a health to all who’ve shot and missed.
I’ll take responsibility for that.
She told my mother that as long as she kept it with her, my father would love and desire her.
Saddle up my horses.
My master is being difficult.
I did kill her.
Don’t talk to me, because I won’t say a word.
Now, what kind of entertainment do we have to fill up the long three hours between dinner and bedtime?
No, it is not possible you should love the enemy of France, Kate.
You may come across better food, but not a warmer welcome.
What will be my evidence?
I have a daughter (I have her until she gets married) who’s given me this letter, considering it her duty.
It’s gone.
What “passion”?
And were you then happy to find shelter on a bed of hay along with swine and homeless bums?
No, my good lord.
If you could, you couldn’t bring him back to life.
The whole time.
Death has sucked the honey from your breath, but it has not yet ruined your beauty.
To be honest, I don’t know why I’m so sad.
Good morning to all these lovely people.
How?
As I vowed, I will unite the York and Lancaster families.
Who’s there!
I dreamed about an emperor called Antony.
How did you sleep, my lord?
If we can do that, everything will be all right.
I’m here, sir.
I know that she is worthy of that love.
But shhh!
In the beautiful city of Verona, where our story takes place, a long-standing hatred between two families erupts into new violence, and citizens stain their hands with the blood of their fellow citizens.
Have you spoken to him?
Come with me now, and help me out.
Now let’s sit closely around this candle and discuss our needs.
They fled toward Peloponnesus.
Good morning, Benedick.
As long as hell and Richard want it.
But the critics and I found it to be an excellent play, with well-ordered scenes that were clever but not fancy. 
Antipholus, you hear how the man pleads with me.
Well, my friends, you’ve got to admit that if you scare the living daylights out of the ladies, they’d have no choice but to execute us.
Mr. Fabian, stay with this gentleman until I come back.
What a storm!
What captain do you serve?
My soul is made out of lead, and it’s so heavy it keeps me stuck on the ground so I can’t move.
I hope it works out for the best, Lepidus.
You should know, my friends, that I have good hopes for tomorrow, and that I will lead you as if I expect victory rather than an honorable death.
Go away and stay apart from me.
If we have sweet-smelling breath, I’m sure they’ll say “it’s a sweet play.” Now no more talking.
Neither my husband nor the slave has returned, even though I sent the slave off running.
He’s a marvelously witty fellow, no doubt, but I’ll outmaneuver him.—Come over here; I’ll whisper a word in your ear.
Don’t miss our feast.
Statilius waved the torchlight at us, but he hasn’t come back.
You tell her, widow!
What do you get to drink, instead of sweet obedience, but poisonous flattery?
There’s nothing to get upset about.
Why should people like me be crawling around between earth and heaven?
Let four captains carry Hamlet like a soldier onto the stage.
He started it, my noble lord, and succeeding generations rebuilt it.
My brother’s servants used to be my equals.
Please don’t take what I said more seriously than it deserves to be taken.
Well, go on your way, then.
Absolutely, if you can find a wife by then.
I don’t know.
Oh, to think that the same body that once ruled the world could now patch up a wall!
He’ll wake you up, I bet.
I gave you everything— And it was about time too.
I’ve gotten it dirty—ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.
Then I’ll call you a serving-creature.
Is your name William?
You’re sharpening that knife not on your sole but on your soul, you cruel Jew.
Welcome to Rome.
You are welcome here, as are all of you English princes.
Live a little, be comforted a little, cheer up a little.
Wait, don’t rush!
What do you think he wants?
This bigmouth jerk here—( He’ll still die by hanging, not drowning, even if every drop of water in the sea tries to swallow him.
Actually, I’m still feeling some pangs of conscience.
Her once-trimmed hedges, like prisoners with wild, untended hair, put forth unruly twigs.
If you come to me after tomorrow and say, “That’s my glove,” I swear by this hand, I will take it and give you a box on the ear.
Remember you!
How is my wife?
Oh my Christian ducats!
This is healthy talk.
If you won’t leave, then 
Oh, what an excellent thing this learning is!
Come, I’ll place you among the sisterhood of holy nuns.
It’s a horrible thing to die when you’re not prepared for it, my gracious lord.
God will take revenge.
Nine or ten times I wanted to stab him under the ribs.
Noble words, sir.
Hello to you.
Dissolute lowlife, you shall die.
Your ghost walks the earth and turns our swords toward our own stomachs.
May the devil turn you black, you white-faced fool!
No, my cousin, don’t wish that even one man who is now in England were here instead.
Yes.
I don’t like it that you knew about this, Iago.
What horrible thing are you imagining?
Why, here is the order to prove it.
Tonight he boarded a treasure ship.
Where is he?
I’m glad he wasn’t here for this fight.
The second cock crowed.
It’s too small for your large mind.
He received Caesar’s letters, and he is coming.
Yes, it is.
You and I cannot be held within the confines of a country’s arbitrary customs, dear Kate.
Curse my father’s ambition!
Please, don’t make fun of me.
Go away!
Where’s Dolabella?
There’s something going on that’s not what it seems.
I am a spirit, yes, since I have a soul.
No, that’s the truth.
I am not made of stone; I am affected by all these kind pleas, though it goes against my conscience and my soul.
Here I’m kneeling to swear that if I ever did anything to destroy his love for me, either by thoughts or actions, or if I ever took pleasure in anyone else, or if I never did love him, or don’t love him now—even though he tries to shake me off—
Beauty is a witch whose spells can turn loyalty into passion.
Now let me tell you, Casca, I have already convinced some of the noblest Romans to join me in an honorable but dangerous mission.
With those plays in mind, we hope you’ll receive this one kindly.
We must not.
No.
Norfolk, we’re going to have a few blows, right?
Trinculo, speak politely.
Very obedient—keep crying.—Concerning this—oh, what fake emotion!—I am being ordered home—Get away from me, I’ll send for you later.—Sir, I’ll obey the order and return to Venice.
I’ll lie down here and measure out my grave.
Just a minute ago I heard you say you didn’t like it when Cassio left my wife.
By St. Paul, ghosts have struck more terror in my soul tonight than ten thousand of worthless Richmond’s soldiers could, dressed up in their most sword-proof armor.
Go on.
Love’s messengers should be thoughts, which fly ten times faster than sunbeams.
She’ll die for it.—Eros, ho!
I’d rather have a handful or two of dried peas.
My daughter told me everything.
Oh God of battles, bolster my soldiers' courage.
Pyramus is coming up to the wall.
Bad people can’t appreciate wisdom or goodness.
Yes, and paid me well for doing it.
You’re afraid of the boar but you go around without your spear?
With the permission of Brutus and the others—for Brutus is an honorable man; they are all honorable men—I have come here to speak at Caesar’s funeral.
If you’re a member of a divine spiritual order of men who forgive sins, and you say you’re my friend, how do you have the heart to mangle me with the word banishment?
Wait good Nurse.
There’s a knocking at the gate.
He’ll make your palace tremble for this insult, even if it were the mightiest in all of Europe.
Baby blooms are most susceptible to disease.
I’ll make ground beef out of you.
Go ahead, Moon.
Oh, let their bodies follow, my dear king, to win back what’s rightfully yours with blood and sword and fire.
Get over it.
That would be a little extreme!
Sir, be a man.
Then Antony offered it the third time.
This is a sleepy tune.
There have never been orphans who’ve suffered what we have.
Then leave him out.
We don’t think so, my lord.
Here’s mine.
The king has broken his heart.
Are you biting your thumb at us?
Then I rebel against you, stars!
By my sword, Beatrice, you love me.
Why?
Greed has been the downfall of many kings.
I swear I have no idea why he stopped loving me.
Your father would be a fool to give you all his wealth and spend his declining years as a guest in your house.
I’m just saying that if you’re good and beautiful, your goodness should have nothing to do with your beauty.
I saw Mark Antony offer him a crown—though it wasn’t a real crown, just a small circlet—and, as I told you, he refused it once—though in my opinion he would’ve liked to have it.
He will be fooled into thinking he is greater than fate, he will mock death, and he will think he is above wisdom, grace, and fear.
Heaven help us!
But I’ll open the curtain and let you see the picture.
He’ll go back to his Egyptian dish.
If that’s not enough, I’ll sign a contract to pay ten times that much, and I’ll give you my hands, my head, and my heart as security.
You’re as pale as your nightgown!
You’re mistaken.
This is what happens when you visit whores.
Why?
Companions in sorrow alleviate our grief.
Guys who’d take her with all her faults, provided there were enough money involved.
He’ll tell you more of the story.
Now, noble Buckingham, seal this alliance by embracing my wife’s friends, and make me happy in your unity.
Wrong, evil traitor.
So how short am I, you painted barber pole?
Have Lucius and Titinius guard the door.
Awaken the memory of those valiant ancestors and with your own powerful arm make their deeds live again.
Has Caesar gone to the Capital yet?
If you like, Brakenbury, you can listen to anything we say.
It’s as common for us old people to assume we know more than we do as for young people to be too wild and crazy.
You’re in love?
I want to go home.
You can be a eunuch, but I’ll be mute.
He hasn’t arrived yet.
You must all keep up this united front.
Your royal father is murdered.
No, our general’s infatuation is out of control.
It’s nice of you to remind me.
Let’s proceed to the field.
In this wicked world, criminals often take the money they stole and use it to buy off the law, shoving justice aside.
I’m more anxious watching you fight than you are in the fight itself.
Tell me, is it missing?
To hell with all worn-out horses, all crazy masters, and all bad roads.
I’ll give  Thank you, darling.
Thank you.
Where have I been?
To me it looks like a weasel.
Your Juliet is alive.
Do you love me?
I never heard so loud a voice issue from such an empty heart.
I’ve botched the job, friends.
I can’t wait to meet her!
This is the Dauphin’s message.
If he’s got a message from the count, tell him I’m sick, or not home.
Tie him up like a thief and bring him here to me.
Everybody may do as they please until seven o'clock tonight.
No, Caesar doesn’t have epilepsy.
Very nice to see you, sir.
A two-hundred-year-old witch sewed it while she was in a fevered trance.
Should be?
You got me, I admit it.
Since you left, I’ve been enjoying the sweetest sleep and most promising dreams I’ve ever had, my lords.
Carry him gently to bed, and every man be ready at his post when he awakes.
He’s speaking now, or perhaps he’s whispering, “Where’s my serpent of the Nile?” For that’s his pet name for me.
Tell me why, if you can.
She’s gone.
I’ll do whatever the king wants.
He had his helmet visor up.
Oh, please, Prince Dauphin!
I wouldn’t commit so serious a crime for anything.
So pardon him, dear father, for my sake.
We are, my lord.
I need better evidence than the ghost to work with.
Be friendly to people but don’t overdo it.
I learned to do this from you. 
Come on, music!
That upsets me much more than getting wet.
I need to speak a word with you.
You will not blame us in your funeral speech, but will say all the good you want to about Caesar and that you do it by our permission.
They know by those measurements if there will be famine or plenty.
Awake, my lords!
He thinks “G” is me.
I swear, I scorn the word.
Look at me crying—what a fool I am to cry at what makes me happy.
What do you remember?
I thought he was just toying with you and meant to ruin your reputation.
Yes, it’s true.
Dressing my out-and-out wickedness in scraps of Scripture, I look like a saint exactly when I’m most like the devil.
My mistress Titania is in love with a monster.
Peace to you, my lord of Burgundy.
We won’t go today—or any day until it’s clear that it shall be whatever time I say it is.  
Will you surrender and avoid all this or be called to account for the destruction of this town?
And that’s how she died?
My lord?
Everyone knows where a wasp wears its stinger.
Let me tell you, friends—
He must be possessed by the devil.
Excellent, good.
I’m not in the mood.
You’ll get a bigger reward than you ever got delivering a letter before.
The only profit I seek is a peaceful match.
We’re in.
I’d be peering over maps to figure out the best ports, piers, and waterways.
Speak.
You think you can get rid of me that easily?
It’s nine o'clock.
There’s little or nothing of that.
I must hide in the darkness for awhile.
It’s not true.
Tell me, if your dark powers can see this far
I’ll read it.—It looks so unlike Portia!
I don’t know,” he said, “any house, wife, or mistress.” My message, which was supposed to be delivered with my mouth, ended up being carried back home by my shoulders.
Let’s take up the best positions we can in the valleys.
They’re retreating, sir, and our superiority indicates a clear victory.
My features are still that beautiful—or else you, the greatest soldier in the world, have become the greatest liar by overpraising them.
He’s not standing straight enough to hold a flag.
Romeo!
Thank you, Ariel.
Now, madam, undress and come to bed.
They see, smell, and taste sweet and sour just like their husbands.
No, not a bit.
Horny animals!
Fulvia is dead.
Wait, here’s a coin for you.
Sir, you and I must part company—no, that’s not it.
I work for Titania, the Fairy Queen, and organize fairy dances for her in the grass.
You should let others take care of you and submit to people who know better than you do what’s good for you.
How strange that they all got so sleepy!
You don’t know how to pick a man.
If your Grace would kindly appoint some members of your council to sit with me once more and go over them more carefully, I will give my answer and acceptance right away.
Father, take pity on him.
That’s true, my lord
She’s a lot like you.
So, the sun won’t shine today!
Is his army approaching?
Will you go hide?
They were traitors.
Good Lord!
Before you can say “Come” and “Go,” And breathe twice, and shout “So, so!” Each one of your servants will rush here,
With her, on top of her—however you want to say it.
I don’t have the proud melancholy of a courtier or the ambitious melancholy of a soldier or the calculated melancholy of a lawyer.
Signior Angelo, please excuse us.
No, Cassius, no.
Pardon me, lords and gentlemen who stayed awake.
Thank you, brave Cassio.
Hey, you!
You could just as easily say that a king sleeps near a beggar if the beggar lives near him, or that the church is supported by your drum because it “stands by” your drum.
If I had the goddess Juno’s power, I would make the strong-winged messenger, Mercury, pick you up and seat you beside Jove.
No.
But two men complimenting each other is like two baboons getting together.
What symptoms, my lord?
Oh, what a wonderful new world, that has such people in it!
Are they washing out his wounds with their tears?
Now leave me alone, as I said.
Actually, it’s my arm.
Goodbye, my sweet lord.—Goodbye, my sister.
Tell him I am ready to lay my crown at his feet and kneel before him.
Hello, sweet lady.
You’re a poor man if you’re this impatient!
Goodbye.
Why did you leave me alone so unkindly?
Tell our top commanders that I want tomorrow’s battle to be the last we fight.
What?
I’ll give the Jew my flesh, blood, bones, and everything before you lose one drop of blood for me.
If we don’t obey them, they’ll suck the life out of us or pinch us black and blue.
Come on.
You have broken my heart.
And you’re not loyal, like us.
Because you gave me something for nothing.
Your wild actions resemble the irrational fury of a beast.
I will go lose myself, wandering up and down throughout the city.
Instead, hide your true face behind smiles and friendliness.
Bring him in front of me.
Imagine, when we talk of horses, that you see them planting their proud hooves in the soft earth.
I wish it were over.
If I told them about this back in Naples, would they believe me?
Well, it doesn’t matter anymore.
Everything is a sick joke.
I think it’s later than that, sir.
I’ll tell everyone what you did, even if it
What’s this all about?
Say, “That splendid Antony.” The courageous Caesar!
Do you want to sink?
I think this applause is for some new honors awarded to Caesar.
On record, my gracious lord.
We’re in God’s hands, brother, not in theirs.
Don’t worry about the consequences.
Hide behind the boxwood hedge, all three of you.
There’s good reason to escape when there’s no mercy to be found anymore.
The whole world could look at you, and no one would be as blind as he is, thinking you’re beautiful.
I will lower my voice.
Our business now is mourning and grief. 
Repent and avoid damnation.
Fabian, bring him here.
The one who plays the part of the king will be particularly welcome.
This letter’s going to turn him into a starry-eyed idiot.
If so, you’d be buying them to sell again.
And I will spend our time apart on my knees, praying for you.
If you love Rosalind as much as you say you do, you will marry her when your brother marries Aliena.
I ordered that the sleeves be cut out and sewed up again, and I’ll prove it in combat even if your little finger is armed with your thimble.
I won’t allow it.
Do you know the difference, my boy, between a bitter fool and a sweet one?
And mine say a hundred and forty.
Get yourself to a church and have a proper priest, who can tell you what marriage is all about, marry you.
God bless you for being here.
No money, I swear.
Oh, I wish you’d never been born!
Doesn’t Benedick deserve as much luck with a mate as he would have with Beatrice?
Did you hit your head?
Yes, and be brief.
Then do so, with all your heart.
Well, I hope not.
Be good enough to take back the same answer I gave before.
Will I hear from you soon?
We’ll leave, Brutus.
Those tears will bring blessings to you.
Well, I recognize this one  Good God!
But it’d take a miracle to make me believe she could do anything that horrible.
You have the nerve to call me daughter?
There’d be no marriage?
Don’t come again to ask for my ransom, good messenger.
And I’m such a sensitive ass that if my hair even tickles me a little, I need to scratch.
I know the boy will be a convincing gentlewoman, taking up her exact walk and talk and gentle gestures.
Well, go along now.
You are only a soldier.
What have you done?
What, should I stab him while he sleeps?
Come with me, please.
Madam?
It was wild insanity to believe promises made by the mouth and not the heart.
Uncle of Exeter, release the man who was arrested yesterday for railing against me.
It’s a shame that we eagles are caged up while the vultures are free to do whatever they please.
He speaks roughly, but what he says is smart, and his roughness makes other people enjoy listening to him.
But I’m overjoyed!
Let’s carry him in triumph to his house!
It was just that the showiness of his grief sent me into a fury.
Is your name Goneril?
They have a coin in England stamped with the figure of an angel, but that’s just engraved on the surface.
With this ring I give them all to you.
I swear that gown’s for me.
Are you beautiful?
I’m not one of his sluts.
It’s his wife, Lady Grey, who got him to do this.
I’d rather break my own heart.
Killing pigs.
I can’t believe that dog, that rat, that mouse, that cat could scratch me to death!
Why is Time so cheap about giving out hair?
No, leave him alone.
If you were as young as I am, if you were in love with Juliet, if you had just married her an hour ago, if then you murdered Tybalt, if you were lovesick like me, and if you were banished, then you might talk about it.
I think I do.
What does the silver one say?
He’s evaded love once or twice, and since then Cupid doesn’t dare to shoot at him.
In fact, she’s crazed.
Oh, what a fall it was, my countrymen!
Oh, control yourself, lady!
A million goodbyes to you.
I wouldn’t think much of it even if it were heavier.
So I  Your Honor’s actors, hearing of your recovery, have come to perform a pleasing comedy for you—and your doctors approve wholeheartedly.
It’s not safe to go near them till we get more help.
You have the power to fix it.
I’ll recite something for you, guy.
You know what they say.
All I know is that staying up late is staying up late.
Listen to me patiently.
It looks like you’ve offended it.
I would choose to take my penalty.
I have half a mind to hit you before you speak again.
The old guy.
Yes, at Philippi.
You won’t see anything like that, sweetheart.
Please, pay him immediately.
The truth will be all the inheritance you get.
Often, when I’m dulled by worry and melancholy, he lightens my mood with his merry pranks.
But who is this person, sir?
I saw her buried in her family’s tomb, and then I came here to tell you the news.
But his navy rules the sea.
Now go!
You told me they escaped into this forest.
How tall is she?
I am being serious, my lord.
Many of you own slaves, which—like your donkeys and dogs and mules—you use to perform awful jobs just because you bought them.
Oh, oh, oh!
I was conceived by a woman, and I thank her very much for all her effort.
Oh, but I’m worried.
What is that bloody knife?
What good does heaven have in store that can do me any good now?
It’s hard to make sense of such different stories.
Lie down right there.  
Did God make him?
I’ll be there early.
The fact that this summer bird, the house martin, builds his nests here proves how inviting the breezes are.
Now I know better.
I’ll go as fast as I can, madam.
Bring me to my host, Macbeth.
You’ll soon be meeting Lorenzo at supper; he’ll be a guest of your new master.
Now, I’m very pleased with it being outdoors, but in its not being at the court, it is boring.
Since you’re letting me leave, I’ll hurry.
She is worse than wicked.
Have I waited so long to see this morning, only to see this?
Come, sir, no more.—Oswald, come here!
Now let the wind blow, waves swell, and ships sink!
Go find him.
Wind and rain can’t wash it off.
Show.
He has almost finished dinner.
I’m coming.
Let’s stay and watch.
Since nobody knows anything about what he leaves behind, then what does it mean to leave early?
This is the plague of important men—our wives betray us more than those of poor men.
No, it’s Casca, someone who’s going to work with us.
The Queen is coming.
Sir, I have no future ahead of me.
Oh, sad day!
You may have lost his respect, but so have I.
Who are you talking about, niece?
Caliban!
By our Lady, I think that’s true.
What was that cry for?
What do you mean?
Are you all good and honest men?
What do you believe?
Who are you?
Mine too.—Are you listening, monster?
Thank God”—that’s a good answer.
Then please, put off your eating for a little while I, like a mother doe, find my fawn and bring it food.
You seem a little depressed about this.
Right now I’m away from home and I can’t provide you with proper care.
Women are made for 
I’ll take the Queen into my custody.
Oh, Cassio, where did you get this?
You just said all your lines at once, cues and all.—Pyramus, enter.
I’m telling you, get out of here, and don’t follow me around like this.
What, are you trying to make me crazy?
What are you doing here in Elsinore?
It’s not daylight.
Dear lady, welcome home.
I’m already here, sir.
I’ll 
Goodbye.
Not good ones, please.
With Rosaline, father?
Ah, but there is, Horatio, there’s a lot of offense.
Maybe, but I wish I’d never laid eyes on him.
I’ll wait patiently.
And as wise as a goose.
Have I hugged you yet?
He is a subject for a king to contemplate, and for a king’s king to ride on, and for the world at large—both friend and stranger—to stop whatever they are doing and marvel at.
What does Caesar want?
Let’s hear someone play the triangle and the sticks.
I will allow you one day to look for help in Ephesus.
Is it that early in the day?
Fool, do not flatter yourself.
Good noble ladies, be brave.
Oh do-de, do-de, do-de.
Gouge out his eyes!
Some French agents are already at work in our main ports and are on the verge of declaring open war.
Thank you, sir.
Are you going to join them?
No, just to the gates of hell, where the devil will meet me, with the horns on his head like a cuckold, and say, “Go up to heaven, Beatrice.
Let’s follow the music as far as we can without leaving our station and see if it stops.
Stay in your cabins.
It’s the best thing to do.
Anyway, what should we do?
Rest assured that we’re going there to use our hands, not our tongues.
It’s true.
Give me the death sentence and end all my troubles.
It’s not manly.
This is a lowlife who basks in the reflection of the fading glory of the woman he works for.—Get out of my sight, scoundrel!
Your Grace does me as great an honor as could be wished by any of his subjects.
I’d rather they killed me than have to live without your love.
It’s worse than murder to humiliate a king’s messenger like this.
Go ahead, swear to that, so you’ll be damned to hell for lying.
Go announce that he will be executed, and tell Macbeth that Cawdor’s titles will be given to him.
I was telling you he used witchcraft to take this island.
That’s what Fulvia told me.
Oh, sweet mermaid, don’t command me to drown myself in the flood of your sister’s tears.
Why are you going crazy over these trashy clothes?
She’s been drowned in salty sea water, and now my salty tears are about to drown her memory all over again.
Everything’s out of control.
In a time like this, it doesn’t make sense to criticize every offense.
Where are you now?
Listen to me, good brother.
Let the gods judge me!
Murder!
All the rumors have been confirmed.
Is it my mother?
No, he’s not.
Spread the rumor abroad that Anne, my wife, is very sick.
Go, Mardian, and let me know how he reacts to my death. 
Here, sir, as foolish as ever.
I will, as surely as I am a gentleman.
I’ll be off before you are.
Romeo, are you going to your father’s for lunch?
Are you done yet?
Explain.
Oh, what a long, tedious, exhausting night!
Be bold, and get ready.
Are you starting to challenge me?
He who chooses me must give and risk all he has.” You’d have to be more attractive for me to give or risk anything for you.
Now I’ll tell you so you don’t have to ask.
A fox you’ve trapped And such a daughter Should both be slaughtered, If my fool’s cap is worth a rope to bind them.
Now from head to foot I’m as firm as marble.
Naked in bed together, but without doing anything?
And do you see how much your foolish wife means to him?
But who’s with him?
I didn’t see anybody use you for kicks.
You say you’re a better soldier.
What, you dare put your hands on me, villain?
God bless you.
You couldn’t beat the two of them apart.
I knew from the first it would be this way.
That will be a good thing.
But then he said strange things to me.
I wish I could be as certain of a good dinner.
Come then, kiss me and take the last bit of warmth from my lips.
Ouch, what a comeback!
I’ll tell you, good Brutus.
And its tears are wet.
Signor Montano, your brave and loyal servant, gives you this information and asks you to send reinforcements to relieve him.
Call me the worst liar?
You’re brave gentlemen.
Is it all come to this?
Where is kind Hastings?
Husbands need to know that their wives are human beings too.
I suggest you lay low until his rage cools a little.
But don’t delay.
Stay warm.
Now Margaret’s curse has fallen on our heads, for standing by and doing nothing when Richard stabbed her son.
I’ll kill myself out of grief!
Why, he told me so himself, and he said he didn’t care who knew it.
I can’t go any further.
And now you toss flowers in the path of Caesar, who comes in triumph over Pompey’s defeated sons?
Beware the thane of Fife.
Her reputation is also her own.
Listen to many people, but talk to few.
But there’s reason for me to look more closely at this schoolmaster.
Me too, my lord.
There, take it all back—plates, cups, the whole thing.
Lysander, keep your Hermia.
But before we reached the end point, Caesar cried, “Help me, Cassius, or I will sink!” And just as Aeneas, the hero who founded Rome, emerged from the fires of Troy with his elderly father Anchises on his shoulder, so I emerged from the Tiber carrying the tired Caesar.
You’d better knock louder.
I should always be wise.
He’s married to Octavia.
Please put that log down and rest a while.
I’ll send my eyes to prison, and they’ll never be free to look at anything again.
Lovely Katherine, if you will love me well with your French heart, I’m happy to hear you confess it in broken English.
There!
Which of you does not tremble when you see me?
As we were trading blows, more and more people showed up to join the fight, until the Prince came and broke everyone up.
The king acts unnaturally—father against child.
And how would we go about doing that?
Go, get out of here.
That will kill our lovers.
Because he’s so young, I’ve tried to discourage him, but he won’t listen.
Then do my lips now have the sin they took from yours?
I’m listening to you only because I’ve got nothing better to do.
And even though Nature has given us the wit to have this argument, hasn’t Fortune sent this fool here to stop us?
Hurry!
Oh, if I’ve got any influence over you at all, please patch things up with him.
I think this night is just like sick daylight.
Oh, your contemptible lady!
Yes, a dozen of them—as many as there are women in the world, in fact.
Stop!
We didn’t expect Mark Antony to be here.
Why have your rosy cheeks faded so quickly?
Fire!
With whom?
Here comes the herald of the French, my liege.
And what’s her story?
Yes, and one other place, if you’ll only let me name it.
I love you dearly, Ariel.
So confess your sin freely now.
All right, stop this.
Where are you all off to?
It’s a friend of Antony’s.  
Here’s Romeo’s man.
I don’t know his name.
No, monster, not me.
I don’t have the cash right now.
Madam, I’m here.
Lorenzo will be happy with what we’ve done.
But if I am myself, then I know for sure that your weeping sister is not my wife.
I hope to see good days—and many of them.
Get down on your knees and thank heaven for sending you such a good man.
Why, this was modeled on a porridge bowl!
What’s the news abroad?
Then it’s confirmed!
And when will you see him again?
Go out and feel what the impoverished feel.
All my pretty little children?
By God, it does look like a camel.
Get to the point now.
Is this well done?
So do all thoughts.
Do whatever you like with it.
Oh, that most wicked fiend!
Of course he is, and so are you.
Look, he’s approaching Caesar.
The three of you have killed a sweet, innocent woman.
Welcome, my good friends.
There are more than enough willing women around.
You’ll “never trust his word again.” Come on, that was a stupid thing to say.
Let me go with him.
It’s now late at night, and actions must accommodate bodily needs, which we’ll satisfy with only a short rest.
The answer, my dear, is that they didn’t dare, because the people of Milan loved me too much.
And you yourself will determine the sentence as you see fit, and impose the death penalty if you choose to, even if the criminal were my own son.
A woman should always pick an older man.
But if it’s not double-dealing, sir, I wish you’d deal me another.
That pale face of yours will frighten the others as well.
What a shameless jerk you are to pretend you don’t know me!
Give him this money and these letters, Reynaldo.
I’m sweating and trembling with fear.
Goodbye, dear Father.
You know that I used to believe in Epicurus and his disregard for omens.
Are you ill?
And yet you’re the one who wants to teach me about restraint!
Does he reward my dedicated service with such deep contempt?
Nice and short and full of good sense—or should I say nonsense?
Good night.
God knows I loved my niece, and now she’s dead—slandered to death by cowards who would just as likely fight a real man as I would grab a poisonous snake by the tongue.
Why?
God bless you!
I know I won’t please you.
And I for no woman.
Meanwhile I’ll stay with Regan with my hundred knights.
I wouldn’t have dared!
Listen to me, you traitor.
There’s a cliff there that leans precariously over the deep sea.
Next he slung his arm around the bride’s neck and kissed her with such a smack that when they parted the sound of their lips made the whole church echo.
By all that’s holy, here comes Katherina!
Enough, Captain.
Is there more news?
Here, stand behind this wall; he’ll come right away.
Romeo will thank you, my girl, for both of us.
Yes, leeks are good.
He knows I recognize him.
Thank you, my noble lord.
You were never with me for anything if you weren’t there for the goose.
They 
Fabian can hardly control him over there.
I’m like the one sick sheep in the flock, the one who deserves to die.
I feel bad for scaring you like this, but it would be much worse for me to let you come to harm.
I’m speaking for the king, but I look like myself.
Stop her!
The son ran away.
How does it go with my magnificent Mark Antony?
Yes, that’s the idea.
Wise men who give fools money might get a good reputation—if they keep up regular payments for fourteen years.
I am still so faithful, my lord.
And make sure the servants are less friendly to his knights.
I’m torn.
Discipline must be kept.
I’ve seen her do it.
Benvolio, who started this fight?
They are.
It’s only going to make you sad, Monsieur Jaques.
How dare you tell us about God’s laws when you have broken them so savagely yourself?
The wine of life has been poured out, and only the dregs remain.
Farewell till then.
I will, Caesar.
Our imminent separation so occupies our thoughts that even though you stay here, you come with me, and even though I leave here, I stay with you.
But if a man becomes weary of these obstacles, he can always kill himself.
That’s most appropriate.
Othello, have one of your officers stay behind to bring you your commission and whatever else is important to you.
Be patient, I’m telling you.
I’m starting to feel murderous urges.
What?
My baby hawk?
But I’ll stop rebuking you.
Tell me.
Come on, come on.
Hurry to a convent.
What do you want?
God and your work be praised, victorious friends.
It’s like a cockleshell or a walnut shell, a joke, a prank, a doll’s cap.
He’ll kill me with tortures.
Duke, the abbess has wronged me and I seek justice.
Yeah, right, go get him.
Brave Iago, how honest and trustworthy you are!
You haven’t got it in you to frown or look displeased or bite your lip as angry women do.
Sweet men, come to him.
The graceful and renowned king is dead.
I beg you not to do this, my lord.
You can go straight to hell!
I humbly thank you, sir.
I wasn’t talking to any man at that time, my lord.
Please, sir, I beg you.
No doubt it will, my liege, if each man does his best.
He woke up the whole house with his loud and cowardly screams.
How can that be?
What was it that you told me today—that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
Now you’re sociable.
No, if you’re ever late like this again, I’ll refuse to see you.
Are these our eyes?
Will it be chased away by bowing and scraping?
Take care of the lady.
Let’s be angry only long enough to do the deed, and then let’s act like we’re disgusted by what we had to do.
He’s in  They say he cried out against sherry.
If they see you, they’ll murder you.
What does the lead box say?
Oh God, I wish the two of them were alive and living in Naples, as king and queen!
Then we won’t agree to his demands.
Don’t disturb his soul.
How exactly have I offended you?
Orsino, sir, please don’t call me those names.
You talk to him, ma'am.
Tunis has never had such a beautiful queen.
Indeed, you would be out if I were your mistress—if my chastity is worth as much as my wit.
The devil’s after me!
Oh, help me, anyone who wants to live long!
I have been sent on ahead to light a fire, and they are coming after to warm themselves.
But has Catesby gone?
Since you asked, I suppose it’s not bragging to say that we are.
Then what’s Antony?
My God!
His crime did justice’s job by taking Tybalt’s life.
Get out of here, you horrible ghost, you hallucination.
It applies to you as much as to me, my lord.
Sir, the person who should sing that song isn’t here.
Why are you so pale?
Yes.
Which one of them should I pick?
Good morning to both of you.
Take it to heart, Dorset.
What’s up, my man?
My lord, when I arrived at their home I gave them your letter.
Hamlet.” Dutifully and obediently my daughter showed me this letter, and more like it.
It’d be better to be delirious and unaware of anything.
Why are you waiting?
Trebonius knows his cue.
If it weren’t for the fact that so many of our soldiers revolted and joined them, we could have met them out in front of the castle, man to man, and beaten them back to England.
It isn’t daybreak yet.
I’ve been dishonored
True, he has an excellent reputation.
But when we have an hour to spare we can talk more about it, if you’re willing.
Is that how it’s going to be?
I’m not going to bed tonight.
Those who were bitter enemies of your father in his time have turned their bitterness to sweetness, serving you loyally and wholeheartedly.
If you steal my money, you’re just stealing trash.
She speaks my language!
Second, he must make a will here in this court that leaves all his property to his son-in-law Lorenzo and his daughter when he dies.
Well then, can’t I act as Rosalind for you tomorrow?
I have time for you now, my sad daughter.
Do you hear us, sir?
Your Majesty, see here—if it won’t offend your Grace—what a complete, rascally, beggarly, lousy rat this is.
Go walk the path that you will never return from.
I want to speak with Clarence, and I came here on my legs.
The glove which I have given him to wear may possibly win him a box on the ear.
I’m a friend, a friend who knows you well.
It’s obvious
Yes, for new lovers time passes ten times faster than for couples who’ve been married forever.
Oh, Antony!
When he comes back from hunting, I’m not going to speak to him.
You are my other self, my oracle, my prophet, my dear brother!
Don’t tell us what our duty is.
I’ve seen both of you fence.
Lead those away who will follow you, and we’ll explain publicly the reasons for Caesar’s death.
And buried, noble Tyrrel?
Be angry whenever you like, it’s all right with me.
Now you’re talking.
Here comes another group looking for you.
And even though I’m in a distasteful mood, I’ll work on being happy.
What are you doing here?
He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester, where, if you’d like, we can retreat to.
If you poison us, don’t we die?
We’re wasting time here.
He gave Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia to Ptolemy.
God, I’m really sick.
If you interrupt this monster with one more word, I’ll beat you like a piece of salted fish.
The sun itself has never seen anyone as beautiful since the world began.
Good husband, come home soon.
I’m not coming.
His knights are getting out of control, and he himself reprimands us about every little detail.
Who can stain that name with a just accusation?
What time is it?
As
The ghost is definitely something to worry about.
No, but the barber’s assistant has been seen with him.
I’ll go get them, sir.  
I would’ve been a sore king then.
Watch Titinius and tell me what you see in the field.
Who does he accuse?
Yes, every inch a king.
Take Cupid’s wings and fly higher than the average man.
My thoughts were never on money.
But here are other matters to be dealt with.
The change will be recorded as a precedent, and many bad legal decisions will result.
A leathermaker will last nine years.
We need some oracle to tell us what’s going on.
Goodbye, sir.
If I owe you anything, I’ll pay you in clubbings.
A man who’s robbed, but doesn’t miss what’s stolen, isn’t robbed at all.
I’ll show you where to get fresh water.
Oh God, do I have to remember that?
You’d better bring the messenger safely through the lines so he can return.
I’m going to go drown myself.
To that end, I presented him with the tennis balls, the perfect expression of his inexperience and frivolity.
He’s the color of nutmeg.
Call my knights together.
I’ve heard my father mention him.
Let’s all sink with the king.
Is it four o'clock?
God knows I waited for you in anguish, pain, and agony when I gave birth to you.
Congratulations, lady
Yes, it truly is.
Nurse, give my regards to to your lady.
I know that voice.
You can relax, ma'am.
Well, that proves she’s in love with you.
But you’re no such man.
He should imprison the person who named you, instead.
Ah, here she comes, angry and sad.
Yes, Cassius.
But who are you?
That’s true, that’s very true.
I can’t help remembering the things that were most precious to me.
No medicine in the world can cure you.
Bring me a bigger one.
What’s going on here, general?
Be patient until I finish.
Aren’t you Kent?
Yes, that was it.
Let tornadoes spew water until the steeples of our churches and the weathervanes are all drowned.
Let’s speak to him.
Hear me, you wrangling pirates.
May God, who is the best matchmaker, join your hearts and realms in one.
You have, my lord.
As for me, I’m surrendering all my power over to him, giving him absolute authority for the rest of his life.
Bring them to me.
I’ll be back quicker than you can think a thought.
How foolish your fears seem now, Calphurnia!
He would just see me for what I am, a person amazed to hear you talking about Naples.
So it’s not my business that’s making me sad.
So take me to see them.
All traitors protest like this.
What satisfaction could you possibly have tonight?
Are you the lady of the house?
I’m your advocate, and I’d rather die than give up on you.
You’ll find out everything in due time.
Are you trying to make fun of me?
Hello, Iago.
I’ve got a plan that will fix everything.
I came here to tell you—I’ll make this short, since she’s already been talked about for too long—the lady is unfaithful.
And what are you going to do after you’ve spent your money?
Can she give that away too?
I was never a thief or a pirate, though I admit I was your enemy for good reasons.
You mean an officer?
The size of my sorrow must be as great as its source.
I thank you, lady.
Yes, it’s definitely nippy.
Why are you curious, Iago?
He took aim at a beautiful young virgin who was sitting on a throne in the western part of the world, and he shot his arrow of love well enough to have pierced a hundred thousand hearts.
At dinner.
Hortensio, good friends like us can get by on a few words.
I am not treacherous.
Go away and let me die.
When fools cry, you remain stony.
Oh, deadly sin!
If we leave, it will feel like nothing less than death to them.
He called her a whore so many times, and heaped up so much abuse on her that good people can’t stand to hear it.
He wants to be crowned.
No more, please.
Ever since Cordelia left for France, sir, the fool has been depressed.
Didn’t I?
Old Montague is here, and he’s waving his sword around just to make me mad.
I’ll answer for you.
It used to be the last ditch comfort of miserable people.
And now you’ve changed?
With God’s help.
What does Romeo say?
But are you sure that Benedick loves Beatrice that much?
You, my slave, were her servant at the time, as you admit yourself.
No, it would be better to speak first and kiss only after you’ve run out of things to say.
What news?
Your majesty!
Poor Tom’s chilly.
Take it and do that for me, and leave me alone for a while.
That he felt for me the love that I begged him to feel for you.
Oh, I’ve heard him talk about that brother, and he described him as the most inhumane man alive.
We’ll be your witnesses.
If only I could spit poison.
Oh, will it never be day?
Come on, Sir Andrew.
Yes, please tell me.
We haven’t been able to meet on a hill or in a valley, in the forest or a meadow, by a pebbly fountain or a rushing stream, or on the beach by the ocean without you disturbing us.
I will, Caesar.
Madam, you have to go to your uncle’s.
Fine.
Can any horse retrace his footsteps with the same energy he had when he walked them the first time?
Good luck.
There is a river in Macedon, and there is likewise a river in Monmouth.
He has already been named king and has left for Scone to be crowned.
No, don’t pause, because I 
Madam, with all my heart.
Where’s my fool?—Go call my fool and have him come here.
My dear sir!
We’ll meet Macbeth there.
You do the same.
My honor wasn’t given; it was only dominated.
Who says he is?
I hid under this monster’s cloak to get out of the storm.
Listen, will you walk with me around the town and then dine with me at the inn?
I’ll make this wedding happen tomorrow morning.
Ma'am, I’d rather— I know your lady Goneril doesn’t love her husband.
Think about it.
Though I am not a flattering, righteous man, at least you can say that I am honest about being a villain.
Let’s listen to the moon.
Please, stop bowing, good sir.
No, sir.
You’re in a good mood tonight, my lord.
He looks like he just recently stopped breastfeeding.
Sometimes the expression on her face tells me she likes me.
You’re Lear’s shadow.
And because you interrupt us so that we can’t dance for them, the winds have made fogs rise up out of the sea and fall down on the rivers so that the rivers flood, just to get revenge on you.
Your honor is the reason you are leaving.
The sky’s so dark it looks like it would rain down boiling hot tar if the sea weren’t swelling up to the sky to put its fire out.
No, you won’t get a word out of me.
And I departed in a rage, right?
Oh, that’s pathetic!
Well, I’m glad about this.
So goodbye, my lady.
Look for him, Titinius, while I go to meet the noble Brutus and force him to hear this news.
The weather is fair.
I do, and it sounds like you’re talking in your sleep.
How could I honorably give him what I’ve already given you?
She’s wise, if I’m judging her right.
Please, my lord, call her back.
Herald, spare yourself.
The coroner’s inquest law.
Let them marry your children!
I could drown the world.
Now die, die, die, die, die.
But a terminal disease requires extreme treatment, or nothing at all.
Only to be generous and give it to you once more.
He remembers how unkind he was to her, how he disowned her and sent her abroad, how he gave her rightful inheritance to her two dog-hearted sisters.
Exactly, madam, until I sleep with you.
Will you break my heart?
Don’t kneel, noble Portia.  
The king is coming.
I’m being called.
Angelo, the jeweler.
But in your daughter’s womb I will bury them.
What, don’t courtiers' hands sweat?
I’d rather be anything besides a fool.
As for myself, I didn’t dare laugh, for fear of opening my lips and inhaling the stinking air.
Edmund and I have talked, and it makes more sense for him to marry me than Goneril.
I’m not a paid messenger, my lady.
Goodbye to the soldiers and to the wars that make men great!
With God as my witness, I swear I have wept for yours.
It’s dangerous out there.
Would you mind if we woke up the king?
Show me the caskets and let me try my luck.
Here they come.
Answer me.
It seems not.
Good night to you.
I hate an ungrateful man more than I hate lying, vanity, babbling, drunkenness, or any other vice that we feeble human beings are susceptible to.— Oh, my God!
Be quiet, you are Antonio.
That fair-skinned, hard-hearted hussy, Rosaline is going to torment him until he goes insane.
Oh, noble fool!
Is everyone here?
Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?
It’s just my bad luck.
Listen!
Quiet there!
The only reason they don’t get punished and cured is that the disease is so commonplace that the nuthouse nurses are usually suffering from it, too.
But if he’s resistant and chilly, then be like that too and break off the conversation.
Sir, do you know who I am?
Just as tall as my heart.
What, are you hurt?
And then you’ll see that despite what you thought, I’ll be as powerful as I was before.
Yes, if that would be all right with your Lordship.
Now get out of here!
The owl made noise all night.
So when should he come?
The flags have fallen.
Help me!
Oh, that’s very nice!
I’m telling you, you jerk priest, my sister will be an angel in heaven while you’re howling in hell.  
Now would you please listen once again to the request I made to you earlier?
I didn’t find him at the Elephant.
It doesn’t matter.
No!
Tell her that I, her king, am her lowly subject.
Thank you kindly, sir.
I know a thousand immature tricks like that, and I’ll use them all.
Good morning, gentlemen.
My spirit has been as proud as each of yours, my courage as great, and my reason perhaps even better suited to bandy words back and forth and exchange frown for frown.
You opposed my taking part in the war.
This song’s about my dead father.
Enough!
Until then, I’ll walk around town, peruse the markets, and gaze upon the buildings, and then I’ll return and sleep at the inn.
But tell me seriously who it is.
She is so generous, kind, and ready to help that she thinks it’s wrong not to do everything she can, even more than she is asked to do.
For heaven’s sake, help me!
I don’t have a lord.
Don’t ever tell anyone what you’ve seen tonight.
Now, sir, where is Claudio?
You sound out of tune.
If I saw twenty of the greatest powers that pay tribute to Caesar taking such liberties with her hand—what’s her name now?
And although we’re giving these honors to this man so that he shares some of the blame for what we’re doing, he’ll carry these honors like a jackass carries gold—groaning and sweating under the load, either led or pushed, as we direct him.
But Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus is an honorable man.
Then there would be two cousins lying sick in bed
If he struggles, use force!
We’ll send Mark Antony to the senate house, and he’ll say that you’re sick today.
We’ll meet again at nine in the morning.
All right, we’ll see you at dinnertime.
And so, good Capulet—which is a name I love like my own name—you should be satisfied with what I say.
I can see in your eyes that you’re starving.
Right.
It’s true.
I recognize his trumpet.
But when I say so, I swear she turns white as a sheet.
I haven’t seen such a promising candidate for your love.
How did he get such an idea?
I swear, I don’t like the look of you.
Another case
The citizens are around, and Tybalt is dead.
It is that.
Good day, Lieutenant Bardolph.
My lord, I won’t miss it.
Take care.
And what oath do we need other than that we honest men have told each other that this will happen or we will die trying?
We’ll let you.
That’s you, right?
Dear Mr. Fabian, do me another favor first.
The excuse you make to delay the news is longer than the news itself.
Their forces are nearby.
One servant cried, “God bless us!” and the other replied, “Amen,” as if they had seen my bloody hands.
Where’s the cook?
Yes, dear madam.
Oh, let her live, and I’ll ruin her manners and her beauty.
How will that kill this marriage?
Look how far that little candle sends its light!
True.
Bring him with us.
It’s been proven that Lady Hero is innocent, that the Prince and Claudio have been utterly deceived, and that Don John—who has run away—is the source of all the trouble.
Your wit is too courtly for me.
And has anyone ever won her, as I’ve done?
Go away!     
Leave now.
Drunk?
Will we be separated?
Thieves!
I don’t doubt your wisdom.
Be quiet, be quiet.
No, nor could the devil’s name be more frightening.
I swear, I think my wife’s faithful, and I think she’s not.
You speak more wisely than you know.
It’s only four o'clock now.
Just obey me a little bit longer.
Kill him rather than let him leave this room.
Of course we will.
Give me a hand and help me off with this magic cloak.
Good friends, I thank you all for coming to see me wed this patient, sweet, virtuous wife.
Oh, really?
You should look like an innocent flower, but be like the snake that hides underneath the flower.
He has a very gloomy attitude.
Stand close together, in case someone loyal to Caesar tries to— Don’t talk about standing together.—Publius, cheer up.
If you sit down, I’ll carry your logs a while.
The meat was fine if you wanted to eat it.
As for my daughter Katherine, this much I know
Your lieutenant, Cassio.
How are you, Guildenstern?
She says something, sir, but I will not repeat it to you.
I have so much care and pity for you that you could call me friend.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
That’s Enobarbus?
I say that I love you more than he does.
What a fearful night this is!
What does this mean?
May God bring you sleep!
There’s no need to be, really, for—  You’re my teacher, so I must believe you.
When you are gentle, you shall have one, too, and not till then.
Even if he were as important a man as the devil—as Lucifer or Beelzebub himself—he’s required, see, your Grace, to keep his vow.
Those island-bred skeletons, terrified for their bones, are an offensive sight on the morning field.
Wake up, wake up!
I wish they had stayed!
Which of you two ate lunch with me today?
Order him to advance his forces first thing, and we’ll follow.
If not, you can kill me.
We have to give up and let him go.      
This terrible storm has smashed the Turks so badly that their plans are ruined.
For that reason he sends you this good news—that this very day your enemies, the queen’s relatives, will die at Pomfret.
Since Cleopatra died, I have lived in such dishonor that the gods despise my disgrace.
I will.
Show us the way.
So, goodbye.
Madam, some actors happened to cross our paths on the way here.
When I have praised Antony, I’ve disparaged Caesar.
You didn’t do anything else to earn this punishment?
No, I swear, I don’t even know what’s in it.
Only he acted from honesty and for the general good.
I just saw your father the Lord Gloucester and notified him that the Duke of Cornwall and his wife Regan will stay with him here tonight.
Believe me on my honor and keep my honor in mind, so you may believe me.
Honest, my lord?
The word is too good to represent her wickedness.
Yes.
Take my sword.
Have them click their heels together and don’t dare touch a hair of the master’s horse’s tail till they kiss their hands.
You may hear about it soon.
No, he comes to be married  Lady, do you come here to be married to this count?
It is not the custom for the maids in France to kiss before they are married, is that what she says?
Is Scotland the same as when I left it?
My master and my lord!
Oh!
Go away now and in the morning meet me in the pit by the river in hell.
Sister, calm down.
My beautiful Rosalind, I’m only an hour late.
But where will we go?
Tonight I’m having a feast that we’ve celebrated for many years.
I’ll do it.
Give us a smile.
I can’t believe I was scared of him!
Where’s Antony?
We’re waiting here for you.
Heaven knows.
Is he enough of a man to wear a hat and grow a beard ?
Here’s to Caesar.
Am I on earth, in heaven, or in hell?
Make your boasts come true, and I’ll be thrilled.
Sir, do you recognize this glove?
Adieu.
Answer me this, please
No, not too upset.
We’ll look for new friends and keep the company of strangers.
He’s at the duke’s morning and night, accusing the state of harming free trade if they deny him justice.
He knows no more about the proper practice of war, see—the ancient practices—than a puppy.
There’s no reason to be afraid.
Quick, quick.
You’re all lazy and shallow.
Her father is Baptista Minola, a pleasant and courteous gentleman.
Then say good-bye to me and tell me those tears were for my benefit.
My friend, your husband, the honest, honest Iago.
Why should he call her a whore?
Your speech is more refined than I would expect in such a remote place as this.
Darkness is stumbling out of the sun’s path like a drunk man.
Your mistress is a good mount.
What are you talking about?
What you were afraid of has happened.
On my honor, I swear I love Rivers with all my heart.
Yes, you’ve been a ladies' man in your time.
So be it.
his daughter, Katherine, with some insignificant, unprofitable dukedoms as her dowry.
Have I accomplished so much in battle, but now I’m afraid to tell some old men the truth?
Tomorrow, my lord.
Before your sentence has been completed?
Think about it.
A man with a wife like that might ask, “Hey, wandering wit, where are you off to?” Nah, better save the questions for when you find her in your neighbor’s bed.
The street is narrow here.
Oh yes, three thousand ducats.
God will protect me.
If this letter doesn’t make him fight, I don’t know what will.
I second that 
It’s the last command I shall ever give you.
And so, good morning to all of you.
Lady Olivia told her servant Malvolio to kick you out of the house.
Please don’t cry.
Retreat!
Up and down, up and down, I will lead them up and down.
Gravestones have been known to move, and trees to speak, to bring guilty men to justice.
There’s nothing like good hay, really sweet hay.
Here comes Sir Toby, limping.
In the same hour, and in the same inn, a poor woman also delivered identical twin boys.
Where’s that music coming from?
But try to control your speech.
But I’ll write again to Mantua, and I’ll keep her in my cell until Romeo comes.
You know that I gave it to you a half hour ago.
You do the same, wherever the crowds are thick.
Right on cue.
Oh, Juliet, I already know about your sad situation.
I want more uncles here to welcome me.
Oh, you stupid Moor!
Are you serious?
You see, we’re not alone in our unhappiness.
Leave me for a bit.
Dear son, you’re alive!
My lord, you don’t need to apologize.
Now I’m scared again.
Is the king dead, the empire dispossessed?
The king’s in bed.
We’re not invading England out of ambition or greed, but out of love—dear love!—and my father’s right to his kingdom.
And she’s loyal, as she has proven.
The sweet and bitter fool Will appear right away.
I’d tell them that I saw natives like these—since they must be natives—who are graceful and well-mannered even if they’re monstrous to look at, kinder than most human beings you might find— kinder than almost any human.  
Why would she write to Edmund?
And there’s a messenger representing a fifth one, the prince of Morocco, who says the prince will be here tonight.
Be kind now and tell me some excellent fortune.
How do you know he loves her?
Don’t be quick to pick a fight, but once you’re in one, hold your own.
So be it, Dolabella.
Come here, Tyrrel.
Go to your cabins and be quiet!
Here, Peter Quince.
Give me your hand.
Well, she can get used to it.
This forest doesn’t seem deserted when you’re here, because you are all the world to me.
Since this prize is yours, Be happy with it, and don’t look for a new one.
Come on, then.
Pardon me?
He never did anything in his whole life that looked as good as the way he died.
Come on, Balthasar, let’s hear that song again.
Which one will start yammering first, Gonzalo or Adrian?
What music should we play then?
He and I will make up.
More, please, more.
I beg you to continue to be patient.
Indeed, my lord, the gloomy Jaques grieves over these deaths.
She picks it up quick, doesn’t she?
Beatrice— I swear, I’m going.
I hope to God we can make him happy and do him some good!
Lucius!
No, I won’t cry any more.
Caius Ligarius, I was never your enemy so much as the sickness that’s made you so thin.
Don’t “ Yes, Nurse, what about that?
You’d better not wear your dagger in your cap that day, or he might slap your head with it.
Swearing is for priests, cowards, overly cautious men, feeble old people, and those long-suffering weaklings who welcome abuse.
Honestly, I can’t.
You  But, uncle, we’re being disrespected.
Hortensio, what’s all this about?
I’m finished.
Just because I act familiar with you sometimes and let you fool around and joke with me, you try to take advantage of my affection.
It’s very strange.
And whoever is most irritated by my foolishness has to laugh the hardest.
piece of cheese will get him.—I challenge you to a match.
Doesn’t my wit suit me well?
I myself, who am more indebted to you than anyone, have brought you this young scholar 
If you dare to fight today, come to the field.
Is this true?
Such exercise!
Or if you haven’t broken away from human company, as my feelings now lead me to do, you haven’t loved.
You and he are both welcome, sir.
And did they ask you to tell Beatrice about this, madam?
Look, here comes someone who loves me, along with someone who loves her.
But if you have sex with her before the marriage ceremony takes place, the heavens will not bless your relationship, but will overwhelm you with hate, contempt, and discord, and will poison your marriage bed so that you both grow to loathe it.
They’ve turned me into food for worms.
I’ve heard a lot more.
It’s Orlando, who triumphed over both the wrestler and you in the same instant.
Who would choose to grunt and sweat through an exhausting life, unless they were afraid of something dreadful after death, the undiscovered country from which no visitor returns, which we wonder about without getting any answers from and which makes us stick to the evils we know rather than rush off to seek the ones we don’t?
You’ll see.
Here are the rulers of France and Burgundy, my lord.
Swear by my sword.
Thank the lord for alliances!
We’ll have to think about it carefully.
For God’s sake, my lord, let’s be sure to be part of the group that meets the prince.
But on the prettiest branches Or at the end of every sentence  I’ll write “Rosalinda,” Teaching everyone who can read that the essence of every spirit Is contained in this one woman.
That way I can conquer my own fear and sleep easy at night.
Do tell.
But never mind them—if Caesar had stabbed their mothers, they would’ve forgiven him.
What, do you think we’re Turks or savages, instead of Christians?
So, sir.
No, my good knight.
Who pronounced this death sentence before a court of law could even convict me?
Rage on, blow!
Where is she?
Have you killed Tybalt?
Then she is well, and nothing is wrong.
Oh, is that so?
Sometimes I appeared in many places at once.
So get prepared.
To our house.
Oh well.
As a wandering lunatic, he can do whatever he wants.
I mean well, sir.
The wind’s whipping up the waves so high you expect them to reach the clouds and splash against the stars in the sky.
The Egyptian snake is born when the sun shines on the Nile mud, just like the crocodile.
In that case, the wise gods deny our prayers for our own good.
Poor man!
I pulled it from his wound.
Well, it seems to me that she is too short to be praised highly, too dark to be praised fairly, and too small to be praised greatly.
He’s had a ship wrecked coming from Tripolis.
Talk makes him crazy.
I feel this pinprick.
I don’t have that kind of reputation!
Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much I love her.
God forbid!
Do I speak to you kindly?
Which he quickly allowed, given that you’re an obstacle to his lust.
I never caused her any harm, as far as I know.
She is dead.
Punish me if it’s not true.
I know him.
As I neglected practical matters, being totally dedicated to solitude and to improving my mind with subjects more valuable than most people imagine, I was so shut away from the world that I unwittingly stirred up evil wishes in my disloyal brother.
Your eyes are like stars, and your voice is more musical than a lark’s song is to a shepherd in the springtime.
Go bring them all here; I give you power over them.
I wish them all safe trips home.
Don’t worry, I won’t.
We three are married, but you two are defeated.
I brought my master news of Juliet’s death.
Oh, that’s nonsense!
Get out of here, good Fleance, run, run, run!
There’s nothing more.
The next hailstone should hit Caesarion, until one by one all my children, and every one of my brave Egyptians, are killed by the dissolving of this pellet storm and lie unburied, covered by gnats and flies.
If you sink, you’re dragging love down.
I’ll send my prayers with him.
You know, if you were anyone other than Brutus, that speech would be your last.
Back then, I called you “a poor, imitation queen,” a badly reproduced copy of what I was, a pretty prologue for the tragedy that was about to follow, a woman who was lifted high only to be hurled down to hell, a mother only teased with two beautiful children, who would soon die.
Yes, for three months.
If you work for him, you’re a fool and should wear a fool’s cap.—So how’s it going, uncle?
Where is Polonius?
So that she may live, I’ll say I cheated on Edward and that she is not really his child.
When he opens his wallet to give us our pay, your conscience will fly out?
That’s too bad, because I spent a long time memorizing it, and it’s poetic.
And you, go call my fool.
Speak, my fair one, and speak fairly, I beg you.
Treat Desdemona well.
Officers, what crime have these men committed?
You weren’t given any gold?
And when I’ve sneaked up on my sons-in-law, then I’ll kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
Macbeth will go there to learn his destiny.
If it’s sad to see a handsome man with a cheating wife, it’s a tragedy to see an ugly thug with a wife who’s faithful.
Do you have the flower?
You’ll just lie there like sleeping dogs and say nothing.
When you record these sad events in your letters, please describe me exactly as I am.
Give me details.
He’s out of his right mind.
Won’t the ladies be scared of the lion?
It won’t annoy you like me, because it doesn’t have a voice.
And you, sir, had me arrested over that necklace.
May heaven bless you.
Enliven them with yours!
Amen!
Ah, don’t tear yourself away from me!
I could do without another toast.
If she can’t find out what his secret is, then send him off to England or wherever you think best.
By the way, I don’t want anyone thinking I’m drunk.
In its tail.
What’s that paper you were reading?
How did you divide yourself in two?
I’m your evil spirit, Brutus.
If your wife’s not a madwoman, and you tell her how much I deserve this ring, she won’t stay angry at you forever if you give it to me.
Look at this, here is the man—scarred, as you can see, by traitors. 
Who wishes that?
You have to wait for the appropriate time to let loose.
Good sir, calm down.
Send the deed after me and I’ll sign it.
This land will belong to your and Albany’s children forever.—And now what does my second daughter Regan, the wife of Cornwall, have to say?
Oh Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
First you taught me how to beg, and now I think you’re teaching me how a beggar should be answered.
Neither of them would take anything but the two rings.
How did she get that candle?
Yes, if you want to help yourself.
Three miles from here you can see it coming, a moving forest.
All this suggests that she has a good reason for doing this to you.
Take some memento from us as a token of our gratitude, not as a fee.
I cannot drink too much of Brutus’s love.
We’ve got to act fast, my lord of the fairies.
Then turn your noble face away from me, that face that the whole world adores.
Small but brave in his surroundings, he’s trying to stand up against the wind and rain blowing back and forth.
You may do whatever you want in the world.
You know, you’re right.
Goodbye.
And I have met a gentleman who promises to help me find a good music tutor to instruct our lady love.
He and I will be there.
Here come two of Duke Senior’s pages.
What’s keeping you?
You tie up horses by their heads, dogs and bears by their necks, monkeys by their waists, and humans by their legs.
Where is he?
The dust from your attending troops should have risen to heaven.
Greetings, my lady, and may God always be with you.
Have you forgotten the torture I freed you from?
You’ve seen these illusions.
Oh, royal Caesar!
Oh no!
Your parents are lucky to have such a lovely child.
Well, start thinking about marriage now.
You’re a well-dressed lady.
Let’s be sacrificers but not butchers, Caius.
You’ll have to leave tonight.
It’s my daughter!
I will proclaim my name around the field.
I beg your pardon.
Yes, the state’s half can be reduced, but not Antonio’s.
Then you were right on target.
I was telling you to go after her, woo her, confront her.
Can you hear me?
Sneaky, dried-up old coot!
Now the only person I love, and believe in, and want to look at, is Helena.
No, madam, no.
Come, my sweet Kate.
Your face betrays strange feelings, my lord, and people will be able to read it like a book.
Yes, as short as a woman’s love.
I’ve written to my sister telling her everything he’s said.
But we won’t shift the scene to Southampton until Henry reappears.
I’ve seen you bait and mock this man more than once.
I’ve seen the whole thing, and it’s completely worthless—unless you think their bad acting and their misremembered lines—which they memorized so painfully—are funny.
You’re mistaken.
Tell him to greet the king of England with our sharp defiance.
You will, my lord.
You’re forgetting yourself when you back me into a corner.
But so what?
You are right, it’s for my mistress.
Now that I’m done, Wall can go away.
You’ll get some of what you want.
My lord, this bill that’s being proposed is the same one that was proposed in the eleventh year of old King Henry’s reign.
He has some wonderful home furnishings—that’s what he calls them—that he’ll use to decorate his house when he gets one.
Please smile whenever you’re near me, my dearest darling.”
She cheated on me, and she was a whore.
Wasn’t he friends with all those brawling knights who serve my father?
I’ve been so tortured since I lost track of you!
My Lord High Constable, the English lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents.
And what will you do if it returns to you?
I charge you, in the name of God, be careful what you say.
You interpret my words in a melancholy sense, my hearty friends.
I had to send it to him.
We’re still waiting for one more.
No.
Bring us the letters.
I think the best sign of intelligence will soon be silence, and talking will only be a good thing for parrots to do.
No ship could survive this storm.
Answer all of us, now.
Oh, they say that dress surpasses all others.
And that’s how I’ll turn her good intentions into a big trap to snag them all.
Time, you thwart my dreadful plans.
I’m tired of it, and you say you’re tired of it too.
Good Hermia, please don’t act so bitter toward me.
She can’t deny it.
That’s the way it should be—only Antony should conquer Antony.
How long have you believed in astrology?
Chat her up, Sir Andrew.
But constant expression of wild grief will only make it tame, so I’m not going to say any more about my boys until I’ve gouged your eyes out with my bare hands.
When you have said your lines, go hide in that bush.—Everyone else, go there too when you’re not onstage.
What can I do for you, sir?
So the weak third of the triumvirate is imprisoned until death frees him.
Let’s hear what Antony has to say.
I’m going to ask her to let me talk to Desdemona.
Who are you?
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
If we lose, what do you plan to do?
A sweet woman!
The deal is closed.
Noble Mercutio, put your sword away.    
Now, Charmian!
Why do you come here?
Ratcliffe, around midnight come to my tent and help me put on my armor.
Am I a coward?
These young children cry for Clarence and so do I, though they don’t cry for Edward, as I do.
But in fact it doesn’t say much.
Tell me.
Tell us how it happened, noble Casca.
This messenger is wise.
Feeling the loss like this, I can’t help but weep for him forever.
Only too well.
Not the time I saw it.
Oh what a curse marriage is!
On a night like this, pretty Jessica, in a bad mood, said outrageously wrong things about her lover, and he forgave her.
They howl about banishment.
Look, here she comes.
Set the honorable old man down and let him eat.
I have a good plan.
Let it be.
Oh no!
If you leave like this, my dear, I won’t ever use my sword again.
The sight of them is offensive.
Oh, if only we had with us here ten thousand of those men back home in England who aren’t working today.
get his position and use him to hurt Othello at the same time?
It’s a disgrace to us all.
Thank you very much.
Now talk to him in your own voice, and tell me how he is.
I showed it to you once.
Why?
Here comes the man who rescued me, sir.
Amen to that!
I can get you five hundred ropes for that price.
Oh, Regan, Goneril, your kind old father whose generous heart gave you everything—Oh, if I think about that I’ll go mad.
One of your tears is worth everything that was won and lost.
Tie him up, I tell you.
Indeed, we have many good days to look forward to!
Oh, this is cause for an extraordinary joy that should be engraved in gold on pillars to last forever.
Oh, I’d rather have met my fiercest enemy in heaven, Horatio, than have lived through that terrible day!
Tomorrow I’ll be at the depths of my misery thinking about the happiness my brother has achieved, in having what he wished for.
Oh, pardon me for bringing this bad news, but you told me it was my job, sir.
That was me, but it’s not me— I’m not ashamed to tell you what I once was, since I’m so happy to have since converted.
Hurry up, it’s getting late.
But don’t let me keep you from going, Cassius.
Oh, wait, sir.
Please just name a time, but don’t wait more than three days.
But what’s your trade?
How are you, my royal lord?
Once more I come to ask you, King Harry, if you’re ready to negotiate your ransom before your certain defeat.
Help!
So I’ll be forced to call you a jerk, Sir Andrew.
What are you going to do now?
I’m dying for food, so let me have some.
Who’s coming with her?
I tell you, you would find the rituals of war and, I promise you, its ceremonies and its solicitudes and its forms and its gravity and its discipline all to be quite counter to all this noise.
The king and queen are coming down with everyone else.
And who is that?
Why, what’s the matter with him?
If every time you wished for a child you could have had one, you would have a million children.
So take for life a fellow of pure and plain faithfulness.
He knows what?
My heart, which dried out with grief, will surely break apart into a powder, and that will be the end of my disgusting mind.
God, what a burden on you I must have been!
I do believe your Majesty takes no shame in wearing the leek on Saint Davy’s Day.
Good.
Yes, my lady.
I swear I won’t, sir.
I didn’t think you could even be so angry.
But gods, you give us faults so we’ll be human.
It’s going to be fun, I promise.
I’m going to make you look sharp, Laertes.
The spirits that know the future have told me this
Will the moon be shining on the night we’re performing our play?
This is how God forces wicked men to turn their swords against themselves.
Well, onward, then.
Why should I now have to make do with only twenty-five?
Up.
Can’t you find a reason without my giving you one?
May God reward you for your kindness!
Othello’s wife has a lot of influence now.
On, on, on, on, on!
Oh, he’s like a snake disguised as a flower.
Here’s a sick man who wants to speak with you.
It takes a wise father to know his own child.
Hey!
He  I can’t tell what’s going on.
Goneril, you know how much I love you, but still I have to say— Shush, please.
We’ve all been duped.
What’s it to you?
Come to think of it, I am feeling sleepy.
You are too evil for words!
Likewise, our common men lie drenched in the blood of princes, and their wounded steeds, ankle-deep in gore, struggle and, raging wildly, stamp on their dead masters with their hooves, killing them a second time.
How am I unfaithful?
Master Malvolio?
Why?
It would’ve been better for you not to have been born at all than to displease me as you did.
My fortune—like that of many of us tonight—is to go drunk to bed.  
This pantomime was probably a summary of the play.
His kiss is as holy as bread blessed by a priest.
I’m at your service.
Pish!
So come with me.
Well, enjoy the sweetness of deep sleep.
Too late, good Diomedes.
Why, are we turning to men?
I hope things go well there.
Was the Duke of Milan kicked out of Milan so his children could become kings of Naples?
Are you an actor?
Thisbe is the lady Pyramus is in love with.
Tell Antony that Brutus has been taken.
Caesar, what did my stay in Egypt have to do with you?
Lead them inside.
If I gave them all I own, I’d have two fool’s caps for myself.
Stop that alarm from ringing, it’s scaring the islanders.
We’re still just beginners when it comes to crime.
I gave my lover a ring and made him swear never to lose it or give it away.
Since the youth won’t be reasoned with, he’ll have to suffer for his stubbornness.
God, not our strength, be praised!
You’re right.
The young snake that escaped will in time become poisonous and threatening, but for now he has no fangs.
That may be true, my lord.
Until then, my noble friend, think about this
Be tough,” says the devil, “and run!” But then my conscience, hanging around my heart, says very wisely to me, “My good friend Launcelot, you’re a good boy, the son of an honest man,” really, that should be the son of an honest woman, since my father cheated on my mother.
Where?
Be on guard duty tonight.
I don’t like it.
This is Illyria, lady.
Your old age and the prospect of death are making you imagine things.
This letter is for you from Signor Antonio.
But who’s coming?
Yes, as much pleasure as one might take in choking a bird at knifepoint.
I have received letters that say the same.
Good sir, as a friend, I advise you to leave this place.
Use your clubs and spears!
I’m killing myself with this provocative speculation . . .
As I came down?
If he asks to see me, tell him I’m sick and went to bed.
Oh, what misery!
How smooth and cool they seem!
Our hour is up.
Well, I wouldn’t want to undo the naughtiness, since the boy turned out so well.
Your slander has broken her heart, and now she lies buried with her ancestors in a tomb—ancestors who had never been tainted by scandal until you caused one with your wickedness.
But soon I’ll see the gods punish you for your lack of respect to your father.
I can’t see ahead of me.
Who’s she?
Dear sir, I pity the lady and wish—more for her sake than my own—that I was more able to help her.
I’d send seven of my servants to go get him.
This ring, sir—oh no, it’s nothing.
Or am I asleep now and imagining all this?
And you, sir, what’s  Well, compared to a fine workman, you might call me a mere cobbler.
This is some monster of the island, with four legs, who seems to me to have some kind of ache.
What are these things we’re looking at, my lord Antonio?
Let him be the devil if he wants to, I don’t care.
This is the devil Flibbertigibbet.
No.
I won’t mess with him.
Here comes my lord.
And the ghost frowned just like the king did once when he attacked the Poles, traveling on the ice in sleds.
Not to his father’s house.
You know from my clothing who I am.
And I hope you won’t think badly of me.
Lead the way.
I’ll recite a prophecy before I go.
Please stay seated.
But like I said, when she tasted the bitter wormwood on my nipple, the pretty little babe got irritated and started to quarrel with my breast.
Sebastian was my father’s name, and my brother was named Sebastian too.
I think it’s too rough, too rude, too rowdy, and it pricks like a thorn.
I’m not going to eat dinner tonight.
He’s done wrong, and his master the king will punish him for it.
I’m sure of that.
My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon, and you, Sir Walter Herbert, are going to stay with me.
Now I see that you can’t call anything good except in right context.
Why, wouldn’t you?
What marvelous music!
I pitied you, worked hard to teach you to speak, and taught you some new thing practically every hour.
Goodbye.
Now this is where you come in.
Don’t take my love for granted.
I’d rather go without the money.
My eyesight has always been bad.
Friendship is enduring except when love is involved.
No, no.
Damn you!
How am I evil to advise Cassio to do exactly what’ll do him good?
You’ve never thought of me like that, and you have no reason to.
Yes, thoroughly.
These things are beyond anything we’ve seen before, and I’m afraid.
Mistress, you know about that.
Come down, brother.
She cursed Hastings then.
There’s no point in looking for him if he doesn’t want to be found.
Pass on the command to halt!
Hang on a minute—who are you?
No, a flatterer wouldn’t, even if the faults were as huge as Mount Olympus.
He doesn’t have to care.
Where are Lysander and beautiful Hermia?
It would be better for Macbeth to rule than someone like me.
Oh, this is terrible!
What’s going on, Juliet?
First, he said you had no right to him.
He ran this way and jumped over this orchard wall.
About an hour for the ringing and fifteen minutes for the crying.
Did we, my lord?
Does it really make sense, once we divide the world into three parts, that he should be one of the three rulers?
Go in, and don’t cry.
Your overwhelming kindness makes me weep.
Who’s that?
I’ve served you since childhood, but I’ve never done you a better service than telling you to stop.
Come on, wake up, wake up, wake up!
If I die before you do make sure I’m wrapped in those sheets in my coffin.
I think if we had fought, we would have proven too young and strong for them after all.
There’s more to it than that.—Ganymede!
Well, let’s have it, Grumio.
However, I’ll do what I can for you.
Would your Honor like to try this dried fruit?
Let’s discuss it some more.
Let me see her.
This is to feel the news, not hear it.
As it is God’s will and pleasure, Captain, I entreat you to come quickly to the king.
Goodbye.
I can’t hide what I am.
I wish I could see that man someday!
What else you do know?
I could really use his advice right now.
I will see you tomorrow, then.
Doesn’t anyone else want to see this, and hear breath wheezing out from broken ribs?
Did a dragon ever hide in such a beautiful cave?
You can’t mean what you’re saying.
It’s my birthday.
Young man, when you wake up, if she’s nearby, beg her to cure your lovesickness.
Please don’t be offended that I don’t want to offend you any more.
He’s been in an unusually good mood and has granted many gifts to your household and servants.
Our action will seem too bloody if we cut off Caesar’s head and then hack at his arms and legs too, Caius Cassius—because Mark Antony is merely one of Caesar’s arms.
Do you know him?
C’mon, make an effort.
Now come sing around the cauldron like a ring of elves and fairies, enchanting everything you put in.
Hang him immediately.
No more than my staying here in Rome might mean to you in Egypt.
Yes, his chest!
Madam, I’d better leave now.
This means we’re having some mischievous fun.
That’s a Cornish name.
Is this your idea of success?
God be good to you!
I will pause for a reply.
I’ll carry prayer books in my pocket and look sweet—even more.
I was talking to some Venetians down by the shore, and the fool showed up.
Six pence a day would’ve been forced on him.
Oh, my bad luck has forced honest men to become traitors.
My noble lord— What is it, Iago?
Oh, but she’ll keep her word.
Which is either a fool or a nothing.
Oh, goodbye to my peace of mind!
Before I learn how to love, I’ll learn how to follow orders.
Where’s Metellus Cimber?
Let them go.
Oh, brother Montague, give me your hand.
But I know why a snail carries its house on its back.
Hail!
No, sir.
They’re louder than the storm or us sailors.
When you fight against your country’s enemies, you will be paid for your efforts with your country’s wealth.
By God, I wouldn’t lose as much honor as a single man more would cost me, I think—not even if it meant giving up my best hope for victory.
Call Claudio and some of my other men.
I’ll put it on anyway.
But tell me, Egeus.
Yes, they are.
A conclusion, a conclusion
Hold on a second.
I don’t feel so well, but I won’t stop.
I will too.
Be the person you know you are, and you’ll be as powerful as this person you fear.
He likes me, and I’ve given him good reason to.
Let me go, or I’ll knock you on the head.
I heard him swear he did.
As for the food, it will be served in covered dishes.
Oh, I’m sick, sick!
You, Prince, are the man who can give me justice.
Say something!
I’m being repaid for that now.
Hurry up and get to your horse.
Did you see how he laughed about sleeping with her?
You have ruined my innocent child.
Oh God, he’s murdered his master!
They steal hearts.
Oh, he’s a dangerously clever boy—bold, quick-witted, capable.
Well, let’s watch it.
Oh, damn three times, damn ten times the evil man whose wicked deed deprived you of your ingenious mind.
He’s not very tall, but he’s tall enough for his age.
Well, at least that’s something.
It was.
What do you want?
Nor living ones, I hope.
Master, master!
Promise me you’ll let me live, and I’ll confess the truth.
He’s here, sir, but please don’t bother him.
Don’t try to tempt me!
We still have time to get all of this done before daybreak.
My trusty servant, Ariel!
A guy like that is bigger than an ape, but the ape could be his doctor, it’s so much smarter.
When we’re faced with a wretched person, bruised and crying with hardship, we try to get them to shush up.
How does she claim to own you?
We hope your poison has worn off and this day shall transform all grievances and quarrels into friendship.
They say they have letters for you.
Take away the stools, the sideboards, and the plates.
You’re a man?
Are you this impatient?
Good night.
Well then, I’ll say this quickly
Get some light!
Your  I mean my daughter is my flesh and blood.
And she screamed at me, right?
Shall I be tempted by the devil?
Where did you learn that song, Fool?
I’ll go to lunch.
I’ll be there shortly.
And everyone can say “welcome,” which is just a word.
I don’t know what you’re talking about.
Didn’t he come home last night?
There, where the torch is burning.
He’s not a “master,” sir, he’s just a poor man’s son.
The river in Monmouth is called Wye, but the name of the other river has gone out of my head.
Go home, you lazy men.
Oh, heaven, how did she get out?
How many noblemen would be weeded out and would become peasants?
If you were a woman, I’d hug you now and cry, and say “Welcome back, drowned Viola!” My father had a mole on his forehead.
Oh, I really think she loves me!
It blushes, is easily embarrassed, and stages regular uprisings in a man’s heart.
Yes, I’ve been responsible for his upbringing.
And her cook yelled, mocked, and teased me, right?
Right this instant, I’m going to Caesar’s funeral.
Honestly, sir, we say that we are not criminals.
And you won’t tell me who you are?
I beg you, Strato, stay by me.
But goodbye.
A man, sir.
Only if the hearer is a fool or a coward.
Oh, I followed something I’m ashamed to look at now!
Pray you sit still.
Well sir, they’ve lied; moreover, they have said things that were not true; secondarily, they are slanderers; sixth and lastly, they have falsely accused a lady; thirdly, they have confirmed things that did not in fact happen; and, in conclusion, they are lying scoundrels.
You should know that I think you’re a smart man.
Is it gone?
On Thursday, sir?
Yet he seems capable.
This little prank of hers is going to cost me.
Is there any way I could show such friendship to you?
Dear gods, bless this couple, since you’re the ones who have shown us the path that led us here.
It’s the devil speaking through him.
Where are your leather apron and your ruler?
I’ll tell you at a better time.
With half the world opposing the other half, it wasn’t the time for Antony, the pivotal player, to let love distract him.
All the perfumes of Arabia couldn’t make my little hand smell better.
Listen to me, madam.
O noble English, who could take on the entire French army with only half their forces, leaving the other half to stand by, idle and laughing.
Would I dare do something like that?
I don’t deny it.
I’ve outshot you, and not for the first time.
Now they’ve turned around and are clearly heading for Cyprus.
I thank you for that quip, good Tranio.
Call them.
Or rather, do what you feel like doing.
Sir, it’s a troupe of actors who want to perform for your Lordship.
It was my magic that saved you when I arrived on the island and heard you, making the pine tree open and let you out.
Scratch my head, Peaseblossom.
Yes, my lord.
Your wife, Fulvia, mustered her army first.
What, the necklace?
Me neither.
Relent?
What, in my presence?
God forbid that I snatch the crown from him.
We all must die, Messala.
Dromio, what stuff of mine did you put on a ship?
And I your servant.
Hello, sir.
Our friendship in our schooldays, our childhood innocence?
Yes.
I swear I will— Come on, let’s go see what happens.
Oh Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio is dead!
Destiny chooses when you’ll die and who you’ll marry.
I think we know whose fancy handwriting that was.
His position is hopeless.
Their illness confounds the most advanced techniques of modern medicine, but when he touches them, they heal immediately because of the power granted to him by heaven.
Well, time is the old judge that tries your kind of criminal.
I can only repeat what I’ve said before.
Venice has made Cassio governor here on Cyprus.
Not me.
Where will we meet in the morning?
I would have sworn that, too, my lord, especially against Benedick.
Don’t you remember how he saw a flea land on Bardolph’s nose and said it was a black soul burning in hell?
A woman owes her husband the same loyalty a subject owes his king.
My lady, should I lie in your lap?
That’s all I wanted to know.
When you ask for my blessing, I’ll get down on my knees and ask you to forgive me.
Will you have me?
Well gentlemen, we’ve heard our assignment.
Antonio will guarantee it, hmmm.
So we are in agreement.
We know what’s appropriate for a watch.
You’re thinking something.
You’re stripped of your power and your command, and Cassio will govern Cyprus.
No, I don’t.
Peaseblossom.
They’re wise and honorable, and will no doubt give you reasons for it.
And so she turns men inside out and never acknowledges the integrity and merit that a man has.
Your descendants will be kings, even though you will not be one.
No, my friends, don’t please fate by giving it your sorrow as well.
You’ll do no such thing.
The most important thing for you to think about is how beautiful his daughter is.
Take off my mistress' gown for your master’s use!
Andrew Aguecheek”
The prayers of saints and those that Richard wronged support us like high-walled fortresses.
When a majestic king starts acting silly, then it’s my duty to be blunt.
God knows why, but your mother and your brother have taken sanctuary in Westminster Abbey.
Partly to confirm my opinion and partly for the satisfaction, see, of my mind, with respect to the demands of proper military practice—that’s the point?
Have you seen a farmer’s dog bark at a beggar?
Tell me what it’s about.
Round enough to be unattractive.
God alive!
Who deserted this morning?
You’re  Forgive me, Signior Gremio, but I’m anxious to get things moving.
I swear I’m not lying.
Stand and fight, you overdressed servant, fight!
They commanded me to lock my doors and leave you out in this merciless storm, but I’ve come out here to find you and take you where there’s warmth and food.
But tell me, monsieur—what sport are the ladies missing?
Got it, sir.
Better, since your lordship was nice enough to ask.
In return, I must clear the sea of pirates and send tributes of wheat to Rome.
My lord, if you have a free moment, I have a message from His Majesty.
Be free and happy.
Give me your hand, Kate.
Was there ever a match put together so quickly?
His feelings don’t move in that direction.
Oh, you’re a clergyman?
Can I have a word with you, Lucillius?
And as you said (and you said it wisely), it’s good to have someone other than a mother listening in on them, since she can be too partial to him.
What’s that?
What foreign lands has he conquered and captive foreigners chained to his chariot wheels?
Will you come with me?
What news, man?
Let’s not fight over this fellow.
I can’t tell you anything else.
Or if you follow me, you’d better understand that I’ll do something bad to you in the forest.
It’s easier to rule a third of the world than a wife like that.
This island contains everything beneficial to life.
Are you good at those kinds of things?
All right Ursula, as Beatrice arrives, we’ll be walking up and down this alley and speaking about nothing but Benedick.
We’ll give you an answer tomorrow.
I am Benedick.
This castle is in a pleasant place.
Damn it all!
Nothing, sir, except grandchildren.
Can I do what all the Parthian arrows, though shot by enemies, could not?
But you’ll have to catch me!
I should really leave right away.
My dear lord, you know how passionately stubborn the duke is.
End it, then, and everything is over.—Eros!—I’m coming, my Queen!—Eros!—Wait for me.
Caesar might act like that.
It used to be that when you knocked a man’s brains out he would just die, and that would be it.
Are you going?
Well, all right then.
Not if the minor ones come up first.
When beggars die there are no comets in the sky.
I was born in Pisa, famous for its serious citizens, like my father before me; my father, Vincentio, a successful, world-traveled merchant, was one of the 
Give me my robe.
There is no indication of the mighty army that surrounds them in his expression, nor has the long, sleepless night robbed his face of an ounce of color.
Why, sweet Othello—   I haven’t done anything to deserve this!
Are you begging, brother?
But what do you say to my request?
Good girl, give it to me.
Don’t take Helena’s side.
Leave me alone.
Do you?
All I’m saying is that strange things have been going on.
Listen!
I told you not to hang around my house.
Near  How large is his land army?
We’ll leave you here. 
Snap out of your daze.
Oh, uncle, it’s better to smile and flatter indoors where it’s dry than get soaked out here.
It was about to say something when the rooster crowed.
Meanwhile, I’ll make a list of props that we’ll need for the play.
You have to be my torchbearer for the masquerade.
That’s out of tune, sir.
I could cure you, if you just called me Rosalind and came by my cottage every day to woo me.
My friends, are you all Lady Olivia’s servants?
No, we’ll sneak away at supper time, disguise ourselves with masks at my house, and come back in an hour.
What role did you play?
Go on.
Good lord!
I had you figured for a piece of furniture.
On land you keep the legions and cavalry together, don’t you?
Yet I wish I could.
Farewell, good neighbor.
May God and his angels guard your sacred throne and grant that you dignify it for a long time.
So I guess it’s you, you silver treasure house.
That’s all there is to say.
Thank you, I’m sure.
Can a good thing hide itself?
When we were alone, we agreed that in public she would go on being unpleasant.
Soak your hands in blood and gore, since you have cut the thread of his life with scissors.
So-so” is good, very good, an excellent answer.
Please let me prove you’re a fool.
I can’t make myself a man by wishing I were, so as a woman I’ll die, from grieving.
So shut up!
I admit I’m only a woman, but I’m still a woman from a noble family—I’m Cato’s daughter.
I made my father angry, so I went to Friar Lawrence’s cell to confess and be forgiven.
This dream has been interpreted all wrong.
Why is my lord enraged against his love?
I’m not sure it’s true, but just the suspicion is enough for me.
And hot as ginger.
Around nine o'clock, madam.
Besides, his cottage, his flocks, and his grazing rights are on sale now, and since he’s not there, there’s nothing to eat at our house.
You’ve stunned him.
Thank God I’m not a woman and afflicted with all the giddiness that troubles that entire sex.
My master’s house.
My dream told me that dreamers often lie.
You know I gave it to you just now.
You’ve pierced me through the heart with your cruelty, and yet you, the murderer, look as bright and clear as a star in the sky.
Every glass of liquor is damned, and the devil’s the main ingredient!
And you’ve come at a good time, so you can convey my greetings to the senators and tell them I won’t come today.
We would not want to die in the company of a man who fears to die with us.
You’ll get there two days before me.
Get down and swear it.
Sweet mistress—I don’t know what other name to give you, or how you’ve figured out mine—you seem as
The queen is here on special business, and her army has moved on.
I feel tortured by all this talking.
I hear it now overhead.
They say the horses ate each other.
He thanks you on his knees many times and considers himself fortunate to have fallen into the hands of one, as he thinks, who is the bravest, most valorous, and thrice-worthy gentleman of England.
Yes, my lord, and calfskin too.
My God, who knows?
We must tie them up and leave them in some dark room.
I don’t owe her any duty—it’s you that I submit to.
Now, you tell me
I didn’t tell you to get rid of one love and replace her with another.
He has killed me, Mother.
It’s too hot.
I will, my lady, but a sane person reading this would make it sound crazy.
Portia!
Where?
Leave us.
Yes, quite a large one, with many cells and dungeons, Denmark being one of the worst.
My money’s almost run out.
Lord Babyface over there will meet me in a duel, and good luck to him then.
The more I hate him, the more he follows me around.
Stop whining, devil.
Oh, grief has transformed me since the last time you saw me.
But go ahead and charm her, gentle Paris; make her love you.
Go back with her?
How can I bring those promises back down to earth, unless my husband sends them back down to me by dying and going to heaven?
I’m going to make you a rich man.
If our general had been his old self, we would have won.
If you’re lying, I’ll hang you alive from the nearest tree until you die of hunger.
He’s conducting some business with my lady, and sooner or later he’ll leave.
The next person to strike again dies.
Mistress, your father requests that you leave your books and come help decorate your sister’s room.
I’m right behind you.
Heaven commanded Nature To fill her one body With all the graces that women contain.
Please be quiet.
Your heart’s going to break.
Here.
Rust inside my body and let me die.
Tell your wife to watch her.
It wasn’t the journey itself, uncle, but the troubles we encountered that made it wearisome and dull.
Give me one,” I said.
Sir, my brother is very fond of you.
You won it.
Help, dear lord, or the battle will be lost!
I will, my lord.
Or are you low, vulgar, and of the common people?
Lock yourself in and send him word that you’re dead.
And I think that if I hadn’t been brave and strong, she would have turned me into a dog and made me her slave.
My good qualities, my legal status as Desdemona’s husband, and my innocence will protect me.
He’s a good man.
If he becomes pale, I know what to do.
I bet my life on it.
That’s a poor example.
I hope he is, but mothers get to have their doubts.
No, after you.
Don’t.
Where is he?
That blind head of yours was created to make me rich.
Can you bring me to him?
Amen to that, lady.
I’ll speak to him now.
Let Merriman catch his breath—the poor dog’s foaming at the mouth.
Why, what’s the matter?
But my personal motivation—and that which should move you most to sanction my departure—is that Fulvia is dead.
Alas, our poor country!
How did my master die, Strato?
When she is like this, besides walking and performing various activities, have you heard her say anything?
True.
Since if the sun breeds maggots on a dead dog, kissing the corpse—by the way, do you have a daughter?
Look how cheerful my mother is, only two hours after my father died.
I would have my own brother arrested if he treated me so terribly.
Why are you defying me in this urgent matter?
The poor thing!
Oh, you streetwalker!
The wind blew down through the chimneys where we were sleeping.
Love’s not love when it gets mixed up with irrelevant outside matters.
Lovely, most lovely Katherine, will you agree to teach a soldier the words that would recommend his love-suit to a gentle heart like yours?
May a plague curse both your families.
You’ll remain a prisoner until we bring your crimes to the Venetian government.—Okay, take him away.
And that necklace around his neck is the very one he swore he didn’t have!
He only lived long enough to become a man, and as soon as he proved that he was a man by fighting like one, he died.
I feel I should recognize you and that man 
You can have it then, your highness.
I’ll have none of your money.
I’ll ask you another question.
Now in the factory of thought, create the image of all London pouring forth into the streets.
The Hero that died!
He’s a very dishonest, puny boy, and more cowardly than a rabbit.
I could even supply the dialogue between you and your lover if you did your little puppet show of love for me.
Whatever else happens tonight, I hope the king escapes safely!
Lord, how you’ve changed!
You call this a scale?
Now please go in.
How is she doing?
Sir, I leave you to your own contentment.
Then tomorrow we’ll find that they feel only like eating, not like fighting.
Come, mistress Kate, I’ll join you.
I bet he slipped away and went home to bed.
And when will that be?
He’s a fool and a spendthrift.
Men can be masters of their fate.
You’d have to be as lazy as a weed on the shores of  I knew it!
I don’t until you practice them on me.
I saw that.
Strike!
Yes, that’s the way I’ll do it.
Follow me, then.
He said he was going to buy me a necklace, but I never saw it.
I’ll bet anything you like that nothing will happen, once again.
Come, and you can have a queen.
So how’s my nephew Hamlet doing?
Sir, that’s well said and well thought out.
I know, prince.
And so, my words and thoughts will be at odds.
How are you, soldier?
I’m Trinculo—don’t be scared—your good friend Trinculo.
You may, sir.
And this is the man who has now become a god, and I’m a wretched creature who must bow down if Caesar so much as carelessly nods my way.
Don’t pardon that.
If he’s never drunk it before, it’ll help soothe his fever.
I assure you, sir, the tender love I feel in my heart is stronger than the sexual passions stirring down below.
Oh, Cassius, Brutus gave the orders too soon.
Don’t worry, sir.
Gentle cousin, let’s go thank him and encourage him.
I’m coming in peace.
Have you both really given me up?
No, good Sir Toby.
If not, to tell you I will die is true, but not for love, by God.
The fool’s a good actor.
If you see me without it, you can be confident I’m dead.
Let me know.
That’s the necklace I gave you, sir.
Farewell.
Well then, goodbye.
It’s shameful, and we have to make some changes right away.
We know how much they suffer if we are unkind to them.
You couldn’t find a third like these two unless the devil himself turned into a Jew.
Let me go with you.
It’s true, and he asked me to beg you both to attend.
Bring him to me in silence.
Caesar and Lepidus declared war against Pompey.
Lord, how painful it was to drown.
I’m ashamed that I yielded to them.
Go, you old housewife, go.
Good night, Lord Brutus.
Oh, my lord, what do you mean by that?
What do you mean by that?
And I beg you, please come here again tomorrow.
I’m so sorry.
Good-bye, my dearest sister, good-bye.
What a wonderful time to be alive!
I’m now sure that every bump in the road has been removed.
Tybalt, old Capulet’s nephew, has sent a letter to Romeo’s father’s house.
Madam, your mother wants to talk to you.
And don’t say all of that yet.
What do you want to tell me?
Farewell, everyone.
Romeo must die.
You haven’t heard of the war brewing between the Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?
This wicked son of mine confirms the prediction —son against father.
And why are you noble, strong, and brave?
The rapier and the dagger.
I’m that great gust to her fire.
I wonder what it means.
Well then, leave them alone until they’re sober.
Yes, my good lord.
Now I’ve done a good day’s work.
I’ll rest now.
Where is he?
But we haven’t made any preparations.
If only I could somehow relate them to me!
It’s easy to err when left to our own devices, but criticism helps us to see our faults and correct them.
I’d kiss you before I spoke.
Let me unbutton this.
What does he say about Brutus?
It is best to marry well and die young, better than to be married for a long time.
Here I am at your service, my dear lord.
If you cut both their throats, then you are the absolute best.
And leave you out?
We’re overjoyed to see you sane again.
Your bedroom.
Here.
He won’t see my face ever again.
No, not sure ones when we’re talking about something unsure.
People say he’s generous, well educated, and brave, and he’s very attractive.
I don’t have the thing that makes time fly.
Name him.
Who is to blame for this
Please listen to me carefully.
Welcome.
Tell us your name, sir, truthfully.
My lord!
Eighty ducats in one shot!
You told me you hated him.
Won’t he join us?
My God, it’s the same one I gave the judge!
It’s too bad.
Myself?
If you refuse it, the whole country will regret it.
Hopefully, your wedding day is only postponed.
Do I look as pale as everyone else does, Lord Dorset?
Yes, right away.
Excuse me, my lord?
An Englishman?
Everything I am and everything I have now belongs to you.
Love is such a violent emotion that it makes people self-destruct, as much as any strong emotion.
Even if I had a whole bunch of mouths, I wouldn’t be able to answer that.
Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
If we cannot defend our country with three times such a power left at home, then we deserve to be harassed by an invader and lose our reputation as a powerful and politically savvy nation.
But I don’t hate Orlando.
That’s good, if he’ll really do it.
If his cause is wrong, our obedience to the king clears us of responsibility for it.
And keep yourself hidden, I command you.
Because, my good king, England is so poorly led, her scepter so foolishly borne by a vain, silly, shallow, impulsive youth, that she’s hardly a threat.
Oh, I wish I were a man!
I swear, sir, you did not eat at home.
Indulge us further and supplement our performance with your own imaginings.
How?
What are you saying, mistress?
Kill Claudio.
Get out of my sight.
I’ll do most of the drinking for you.
I wouldn’t allow your enemies to say that, and I won’t believe it from you.
Make your confession short.
He’s very handsome and speaks well, but he’s very young.
How’s everyone in Verona?
The first drink makes him a fool, the second makes him crazy, and the third drowns him.
She’s an excellent, sweet woman, and there’s no doubt that she is virtuous.
I enchanted them so thoroughly that they followed me through thorn bushes and prickly shrubs that tore up their shins.
We have to take the king’s side.
Take away this body, and do what I say.
Ha!
Hang our flags on the outer walls.
When his god falls asleep, the monster will snatch his wine bottle.
I’d swear to you on my soul that she’s a good, honest person, sir.
But what about the bloody handkerchief?
Are you with a Cornish company?
But do you mean what you’re saying?
Have his daughters made him crazy like this?—Couldn’t you have kept something for yourself?
Is there a scale here to weigh the flesh?
It won’t go on.
If we’d fought like this before, we’d have driven them home with bandaged heads.
His attendants are desperate, violent men.
I’ve never seen such a monster.
Meanwhile, I’ll get Sir Toby.
As for my wife, if only you had such a wife.
The original story was written in the finest Italian.
I’ll fetch him.
Good-bye.
Stay, lovely Helena.
In fact, every imprisoned man holds in his own hand the tool to free himself.
Good-bye.
Is Fleance going with you?
And in the morning I’ll take you to your ship and we’ll sail to Naples, where I hope to see this loving couple married.
The gods have ordained it to be like this, sir.
Good heavens, man, give them more than that!
We have consented to all reasonable terms.
What are you going to do?
I want you there and back again before I can even tell you what you should do there.
The  Get out of here!
O, this evil wind that spreads nothing but misery.
The sailors are all below deck, sleeping both from their labor and from a magic spell I cast over them.
Oh, the poor man!
Damn my suspicious thoughts!
Yes, sir.
I remember he’s already occupied.
Please, dear, calm down.
Honest to God, where’s the sexton?
You who are beautiful beyond words, calm down and let me explain myself.
What do you want from me?
Why?
My niece already thinks he’s insane.
I’m sure I’ll never get married in the way my sisters say they’re married, loving their father only.
I think that on a night like this, when the wind blew the trees so gently that they didn’t make a sound,  On a night like this,  On a night like this,  On a night like this, 
Where are they supposed to come?
Get out of here!
A servant told me the night-watchmen saw horrid sights too, but different ones from what we heard and saw.
This is a stranger business than men have ever set foot in before, and it’s not natural either.
I wish he’d go away!
Princes travel across deserts and the vast wilderness of Arabia to come see the beautiful Portia.
A cat in heat will look for a mate, And Rosalind certainly will too.
What did you think about that French lord, Monsieur le Bon?
Then teach your cousin to also be willing to close her eyes, my lord.
Let’s go!
No, nothing.
Here comes his Majesty.
That your interest payments are like Jacob’s sheep?
You must be ready for revenge, too, when you hear me out.
Until then, think about the well-being of Rome.
Doesn’t a Jew have hands, bodily organs, a human shape, five senses, feelings, and passions?
Look!
Will your Majesty grant us permission to freely express the message we’ve been asked to convey?
Yes, I am.
No, not at all, sir.
Give it up and go drink.  
He’s somewhere between boy and man.
Yes, from Normandy.
It looks better in a king than his own crown looks on him.
So, without further ado, the best thing to do now is probably just to shake hands and go our separate ways.
Don’t stay here, go away.
A man named Iago, the general’s ensign.
I will say as much to his face.
Please hire Cassio again.
You evil thief, where have you hidden my daughter?
Go on, take them.
Me neither, my lord.
A mischievous child.
Well, let it strike ten then.
What’s important is the urgency of this mission.
You get only one round.
You couldn’t see him, but I could.
I want my sword.
Enough of this.
Damn your stones for disappointing me like this!
Tell him he’s not going to speak with me.
You’re right, Charmian.
Tell me what you’ve done with the money I entrusted to you.
Name one.
Who doesn’t know he’s dead?
Let Rome fall!
I was too young at the time to appreciate her value, but now I know her.
I can’t tell who’s who.
Didn’t you say something?
What do you think of these quick-witted folks, Gremio?
Oh, here comes the storm again.
And find a poverty stricken gentleman who I can marry straightaway to Clarence’s daughter.
I think I did, sir.
Why did you leave your wife and child vulnerable—the most precious things in your life, those strong bonds of love?
Go hang yourselves, all of you!
I admit that he’s murderous, lecherous, greedy, lying, deceitful, violent, malicious, and guilty of every sin that has a name.
That whore?
I’ll do everything a younger man could do for you.
And also to find out the size of the enemy army.
Where’s your father?
That’s the one.
Gratiano!
It is not destiny’s fault, but our own faults, that we’re slaves.
I’ll smear my face with filth, put on a loincloth, make my hair matted and tangled, and face the bad weather wearing almost nothing.
Good night, dear Captain Blunt.
Lord, it’s glancing every which way!
Didn’t I turn down the page where I left off reading?
Quiet!
Come, driver!
We 
Leap and dance for him.
Sir, welcome to our house.
Maybe she can’t find him.
You barely have the heart to tell me, so you can’t possibly have the nerve to do it.
What?
How can I help you?
As for this ghost we just saw, he’s a real one, I can tell you that much.
The noise is coming from over there.
I will not do them wrong.
Yes, I see them coming.
Do you know him?
I won’t keep you very long.
So, good-bye.
Look at this man.
I’ll go ahead of you, sir. 
He who chooses me will get as much as he deserves.” As much as he deserves—wait a minute there, Morocco, and consider your own value with a level head.
Although you bring me joy, I can’t take joy in this exchange of promises tonight.
What’s his name?
That’s another sin arising from your ignorance
The gold I gave Dromio is safe and sound at the Centaur, and the inn host says that Dromio has left and is looking for me.
Gracious Lord, blunt the swords of those traitors who mean to tear poor England apart again!
He doesn’t have children.
Oh, if only my smiles could inspire love as effectively as your frowns!
And I would die a thousand deaths cheerfully, if it made your life easier.
Farewell, my lord.
Let me at him.
A Roman.
I’ve told cowards to turn their backs on me and run.
Fear will keep you safe.
Ready to set sail, sir?
Welcome to the open air again.
There’s magic in its fabric.
Goodbye!
Where is Montjoy, the herald?
This is Decius Brutus.
Okay.
Quiet, there!
You should pity me for that reason, not hate me.
I have a ship full of treasure.
If your highness is willing, take revenge on him for that—because I know you’re brave enough, I don’t dare to— That’s for sure.
You should listen to reason.
Prison, my lord?
Good shining, Moon!—Really, the Moon shines very well.
What, even you, Brutus?
Gentlemen, welcome to Elsinore.
Well, her name’s a word, and if you fooled around with it you might make her into a whore.
He’s in Athens, my lord.
If I had known this young man was his son, I would have tried harder to convince him not to fight.
Oh, how I wish we could oppose Caesar’s spirit—his overblown ambition—and not hack up Caesar himself!
My lord and brother, God save you.
You haven’t seen anything, then?
No, there it is again.
Mine did too.
No, by our Lady, I don’t think he can.
It’s strange that Regan and her husband left their house without sending back my messenger.
Because it doesn’t have eight?
That’s why I wish my sister didn’t have a name, sir.
Since I’m suddenly all the rage, it will be worth the cost.
He could never bear carnation.
What’s Pyramus?
We will watch the execution.
Your face is mine, and you have slandered it.
So get down on your knees and beg mercy from the duke.
He claimed he knew that, and that’s why he’s come to speak with you.
Listen up, uncle.
Stop, Demetrius!
I have no more royal sons for you to murder.
If she feels like coming over here, I’ll give her your message.
What can I say?
Here comes the good Macduff.
Until then, we’ve said enough. 
In Sicyon.
If they have done this thing, my noble lord— If?
You are not, Cassius.
Yes, just as great and just as recent.
Biondello, go and tell your mistress to come to me.
I say it’s the moon that shines so bright.
Good night, good night.
I was told that by one who knows him better than you.
I know you’re the right person for this job.
Did you see anything?
I’ve transferred Richard’s body to a new grave and on it poured more tears of remorse than it has shed drops of blood.
Neighbors and friends, though we don’t have anyone for the bride and bridegroom’s places at the table, you know there’s nothing missing in the feast itself.
Now go and get me some booze.
You see that any morals she has left are preventing her from denying the charges
I answered that Lepidus had become too brutal and abused his position.
No.
Draw your sword and give me enough blows to kill me.
What man were you talking to at your window last night, between the hours of midnight and one?
Why are you so strong and good?
We can’t waste time between now and six o'clock.
My father instructed you in his will to give me a good education.
We’re wandering in a maze.
It was windy on shore too.
Then I heard the trumpets blow twice, and left him there in a trance.
She will wither and come to a bad end.
It’s Captain Macmorris, right?
Here.
Bad luck, bad luck?
I do, in fact.
The king, the king’s to blame.
Tell me, how is my mother?
You’ve made him so delusional he’ll go crazy when he learns the truth.
We’ll cool the mixture with baboon blood.
Dolabella.
Are you going to get me in trouble?
Now I see the blood rushing to your cheeks.
All your talents and gifts didn’t arouse as much envy from him as this one quality did, though to me it’s far from your best attribute.
that mountain of insanity that wants to marry me, I could find it in my heart to stay here and become a witch myself.
They tell me he died well, and settled his scores.
Don’t say no.
You have impatience all over your face.
He’s not sick, my lord, but he’s very upset, and his problems are serious.
If you keep on the way you’ve been going, you’ll kill yourself.
He taught me how to recognize a man in love, and you’re not a prisoner of love, I’m sure.
Show us the way without further delay.—Trinculo, since the king and all our comrades are drowned, we’re the heirs of this place.—Here, carry my wine bottle.—Trinculo, my buddy, we’ll get that bottle refilled soon enough.
Do you hear what I say, lady?
I don’t have any “brilliant” reason for it, but I have a good enough reason.
How are you, Malvolio?
Because you’re like the lowborn fellow who strikes the bell—you keep interrupting my thoughts.
If this letter falls into your hands, think carefully about what it says.
It’s the wind.
All three of them are crazy with despair.
He’s not your man.
Now, I swear by Apollo… By Apollo, King, you’re taking the names of the gods in vain.
A hundred then.
Then I’ll be quick.
Do you think they’re married?
I didn’t see them.
And would I have ever done that to you?
The king made peace among all of us.
Me too.
Play the music.—Take my hands, my queen, and we’ll lull these people to sleep with our soft dancing. 
I was born and raised less than three hours from here.
Tonight is for celebrating!
You know too much about suffering.
You can have a whole story, not just a word.
Please keep in mind we’re only here out of spite.
For there never was a pretty woman who didn’t like to preen in the mirror.
Let me borrow a mirror.
Ensign, what’s he doing in there?
Good-bye to you, the last of all the Romans.
Actually I think I would, and then I’d undo it after I did it.
Why is that cauldron sinking?
Gave me, sir?
Give me your hand, Leonato.
And women.
It’s a villain and a bastard and a coward and a rascal.
Nothing, my lord.
I’d give anything to keep them from seeing you here.
Am I all alone?
Romeo, are you crazy?
Tell us.
Being too old to marry someone young.
Cassio!
We’ve been waiting a long time for this day.
Your lives are over.
You can have what you want.
He has no friends except those who are too afraid to defy him.
I hope you get what you desire!
I’ll have you whipped with wire and soaked in brine like a pickle, making your pain linger.
You know, he got me in trouble with the lady of the house once when I arranged a bear-baiting here.
Transform your grief into anger.
Only until noon, my lord?
Monster, use your fingers.
The level meadow, where the freckled cowslip, burnet, and green clover once grew, has become useless
Neither good nor bad.
of patience.
He’ll find out soon what happened in England.
He’s flabby and out of breath.—Here, Hamlet, take my handkerchief and wipe your forehead.
Your mother sends her blessings.
Grant their law-abiding request!
If this business would really be finished when I did the deed, then it would be best to get it over with quickly.
Edmund, go find him.
Even if we said that this behavior suits him—though only a man with a perfect character could avoid being disgraced by such antics—there’s no excuse for the extra work we’ve had to take on while he’s been off amusing himself.
It came from a neutral party, not from someone opposed to you.
Speak, Claudio, that’s your cue.
Besides, I don’t like you.
I’ll prove with my sword that I’m not scared of you.
Have you returned smiling from the great battle for the world? 
Either here or at the Capitol.
It was obviously a hit.
If it isn’t my old friend Grumio—and my dear friend Petruchio!
Or had a friend who would be a man for me!
And bring the ship’s captain to the castle.
And what an excellent piece of work it is, too, madam lady!
Who, me?
Our tolerance for slavery and oppression shows us to be weak, like women.
Oh, no, good gentleman!
I have already condemned and excused myself.
But now I have joyful news for you, girl.
Stay down, heart.
Death is the best way to cover over her shame.
How are you and your master getting along?
I’m sorry you don’t have time.—Antonio, give this gentleman a reward.
And now you know my meaning.
Ate at home?
Is Clarence dead?
If he can manage to walk after our fight, I’ll never wrestle for money again.
He’s furious because she stole an adorable boy from an Indian king.
Please, my king, be quiet.
Now they work for me.
Come, come, let’s remember why we’re here.
And because I know how fond she is of music, playing her instruments, and poetry, I plan to hire live-in tutors for her.
Keep me balanced and sane.
My sword and I will earn our place in history.
Here on her breast there’s a little bloody mark.
Will you abandon such gentle lambs, God, and throw them to the wolves?
Look, I don’t love you, so stop following me around.
But I am thankful that you have found it.
Go now, and pretend to be a friendly hostess.
Okay, bring on the play.
Investigate how this foul murder came about.
I’ll look for him and secretly help him.
I curse him, but he loves me.
They’re coming.
A crown was offered to him, and he pushed it away with the back of his hand, like this—and then the people started shouting.
Knock, sir?
Yes, but not out of fear.
I’m hoping for better.
You call that ranting?  
Let everyone beware
Lighten up.
I took good care of you—piece of filth that you are—and let you stay in my own hut until you tried to rape my daughter.
What’s all that shouting about?
Can you do that?
May good fortune come to you, good Petruchio!
Oh, poor Romeo!
and affection, even if it’s just an act.
Don’t forget the vows we made to each other.
Men’s faces are truthful, whatever their hands do.
Take this, too.
Othello isn’t any of those things.
Stop hollering, man!
A governor shines as brightly as a king until a king is near by, and the governor suddenly looks like a nobody.
You can have anything you want.
If you thought that you’d be thinking too much.
These are unnatural events.
What strange reason could she have for coming here?
Get ready, my lord.
My freedom.
If I have killed your children, I will have children with your daughter.
Well, okay.—I swear to God, both their stories match.
Good night, ladies, good night, sweet ladies, good night, good night.
To find you.
It’s still a long time until daybreak.
That’s not necessary.
It’s doubly wrong to cheat on your wife and then let her see the offense in your eyes.
It’s about you.
I rescued that ungrateful boy next to you from drowning.
No harm was done.
I don’t trust you.
If your affection for me doesn’t convince you to come, don’t let my letter do so.” Oh, my darling, make your arrangements and go!
Bring me face to face with Macbeth, that devil of Scotland.
What do you want, fellow?
I will do more, though nothing I can do is any good since this remorse comes after the crime, asking for pardon.
Oh, really?
What, does your wife say you can come home?
Cheer up, because I think you’re going to hell.
People in high positions are shaken by many blasts of wind, and when they fall, they shatter into pieces.
That’s the only witchcraft I ever used.
Didn’t I buckle this well?
If my eyes aren’t deceiving me, goodbye, love.
The muffled queen” is good.
He’s still sharp when it comes to carrying out a bold or noble enterprise, though he puts on this show of stupidity.
It’s certain.
Right now you swear to me that you are a virgin; if you were a poet, I might have some hope you were lying.
I’ll give my vile body back to the earth.
If you really love me, you’ll find me.—Nerissa and the rest of you, get away from him.
She’s a virtuous and holy lady.
Do you want to know the truth?
You’re overstepping your bounds now.
Be quiet, for shame!
All we do is sit and sit and eat and eat.
You would take it back?
Please, leave it here.
To our horses, you gallant princes.
Break it up.” Then he jumped in between them and forced them to put their swords down.
But this whole thing is strange.
Have her send it to me.
There is a way, ma'am.
The fight is between our masters, and we men who work for them.
Give my regards to your daughter.
Carry them away.
Look at him.
No, stop.
I’ll give you a good reason to cringe, I promise you.
I wish we had a signed legal contract.
I know you can do better than that, but it’ll do for now.
Sir, that would be me and my partner.
And you saw how the beggar ran from the mutt?
Let me see.
Who are you?
Then if he loses, it’ll be his swan song, music before the end.
Then tomorrow at dinner?
The fire is ready.
By Jesus, he will defend his position on the practices of the ancient Roman wars as well as any military man in the world.
That’s my sister.
I could marry that Maria for thinking this up.
We failed in half of our mission.
Yes, and a nice one at that.
He builds our fires, gets our firewood, and does all kinds of useful things for us.—Hey!
My leg’s been cut in two.
Do you really think there’s a man fool enough to marry into hell—however rich the father is?
Good night, honest Iago.
I tell you, though, it’s incredible how much she loves me.
Good friends, go in and have some wine with me.
I’ll tell you everything exactly as it happened.
Come, Ariel—I summon you with a thought.
Young boy, I wish I could make you believe that I’m in love.
You’ll find us both at Crosby Place.
Tell him not to send any more messengers—unless you feel like coming back to tell me how he took the bad news.
Why “let it strike”?
Man, they were asking for it.
When powerful kings cave in to flatterers, do you think loyal men will be afraid to speak out against it?
Help me, angels!
Don’t ask me what I know.
There we go!
Here comes my little bird.
Do you remember her face?
Let the envoy from Antony come in.
They were paid to betray their master.
The Danes, the Germans, and the Dutch—come on, drink, drink!—are nothing compared to the English.
I’m old and foolish.
But jealous people don’t think like that.
What does this say?
The rest of the dead are princes, barons, lords, knights, squires, and gentlemen of birth and rank.
My God, it’s nauseating!
I’ll go call the watch.
Is that what he says?
It makes me very happy to hear he’s so interested.
Drink when I order you, servant-monster.
His military understanding is all theory, no practice.
He made my heart leap for you.  
You’ve probably heard about the “change” that’s come over Hamlet—that’s the only word for it, since inside and out he’s different from what he was before.
Really, are you afraid of that?
Go ahead.
Anyway, what’s up?
Well, I’m sorry for your niece.
You lie.
Who’s that calling?
I’m not sure, my lord.
Adieu, good Mr. Depression.
Ever since the Duke’s messenger visited Olivia, she’s been upset.
Am I really like one of those guys?
They have wings.
I have a daughter named Katherina, sir.
Murder has no tongue, but miraculously it still finds a way to speak.
Come with me.
Sir, it’s the Moor.
Oh no!
If love plays rough with you, play rough with  Come on, let’s knock and go in.
Since you know all this is true, why do you blame me for loving you?
I’ll look into it further.
Goodbye.
Go where, my lord?—Cesario, my husband, stay here.
I’ll walk up and down and sing a song, so they’ll know I’m not afraid.
Please don’t make fun of me.
Call my sister that.
Dorset has fled to the earl of Richmond.
Why do you ask?
No, it’s dreadfully steep.
I hit hard when I’m angry.
Look for yourself—see the top of the cliff way up there?
Everyone says you can’t make up your mind.
Speak softly.
They’re just fine, my dear madam.
Soldiers, watch carefully.
Where is your husband?
Do so, and tell my sweet to be ready to scold me.
There are no bushes or shrubs to protect me from the weather here.
The chicken is burning, the pig is overcooked, the clock has already struck twelve, and my mistress has clocked me one on the cheek.
Destructive thoughts come quickly to the minds of desperate men!
What kind of beard should I wear for the part?
Are you riding far?
You can refuse to make me your spouse, but I’ll be your servant whether you want me to or not.
Let’s go, because it’s already after midnight, and we want him on our side before daylight.
Tell me, you villainous lowlife, where are my children?
You will pretend to be a schoolmaster and offer to teach the girl.
If I were your average fool, or if I made my feelings for you worthless by making the same promises of friendship to everybody, or if you’d seen me first flattering men, hugging them tightly, and later slandering them behind their backs, or if you hear that I drunkenly declare friendship at banquets with all the rabble, only then, of course, go ahead and assume I’m dangerous.
You’re snoring, but it sounds like you’re talking.
Say I will love her everlastingly.
In that case, I ask that for the sake of friendship and alliance you let that one item stand with the rest, and bestow your daughter on me.
I’ll hire you again to go back to Rome.
Why, what’s the problem?
Our men have all broken ranks.
Be loud and obnoxious.
Look, here comes Helena.
What are your names?
These were sweet omens!
Who measured the ground?
You’re giving him a present?
Here I am, Theseus.
Katherina, you may stay.
But how is it possible that you still remember this, through all the darkness of the past?
The general is talking to you!
you will  And what if he won’t stop?
But I don’t think it’ll hurt him to tell the truth.
Eros, would you like to look through a window in Rome and watch your master marching in Caesar’s victory parade, his arms crossed and tied, his head bowed in submission, his face red from shame, while the chariot of triumphant Caesar precedes him, putting the final stamp to his humiliation?
Eros, can you still see me?
Listen.
Cleopatra— How could I have ever thought that you would be faithful and true, even though your vows of love shook the heavens themselves—you, who were unfaithful to Fulvia?
Gone, sir.
I’m not a man who talks a lot, but I thank you.
I was engaged to her before I ever met Hermia.
A sleeve?
I rely on your virtue to protect me.
Is the news good or bad that you enter without knocking?
Don’t go back until I’ve carried the corpse into the marketplace.
Shame on you!
It’s a very sad day.
Is this true?
Who is this?
We’ll rise and leave early tomorrow.
There was no end to his generosity.
No, you shall not.
Remember you!
I wasn’t born to die on your sword.
Not by the likes of you!
If you get nasty with me, Pistol, I’ll stab you with my sword, in fair play.
I see you don’t intend to part with her—or perhaps you don’t like my company.
I’ll come too.
Definitely not.
I will have it all mine.
You, I think, would best know what he’s thinking.
I knew you’d turn out this way.
Get out, insolent eunuch!
Leave me alone.
Let the Egyptians and Phoenicians go swimming.
Should we all give up and drown?
Help me, ladies!
What time is it?
Men, wives, and children stare, cry out, and run in the streets as though it were doomsday.
If anyone here knows a better way to tame a shrew, speak up, please.
Surely, Luciana, it’s already two o'clock.
Master, do you really mean that?
I won’t be hit, my lord.  
The captain—give it to the captain.
Get away from here and leave me.
What’s this?
Everything depends on this
Actually, once or twice she sighed and said, “father,” as if the word were pressing on her chest.
You’ll both help me, right?
Are they as popular as they used to be when I lived in the city?
No, no, I can’t, really.
There are tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for his bravery, and death for his ambition.
Please do.
The island must be mild, and have a temperate climate.
I wish your loyalty were as foolish.
And there comes Caesar.    
These two people are as identical as two halves of an apple.
him terribly.
He rode that prologue like a wild horse.
As for those who have, I beg you to excuse the gaps in time, and the many people and things that cannot be represented here in all their magnitude and proper form.
I’ll get free of you.
Tell me!
Pay me three times the amount of the loan and let the Christian go.
Lily-livered coward, what’s he doing there?
He pretended to be some kind of sorcerer, and he gazed in my eyes and took my pulse.
Down with the Montagues!
Great Duke, be merciful to mortal men.
Or should we enter without apologizing?
With that, I hope God is with him!
Have all his business ventures failed?
We’ll all join hands and sing, and bless this place with our fairy grace.    
Go to bed, and sleep.
Sir, sir!
There is no rest to be had in any bedroom where you are!
Think about the ones who have died.
Richard.
Goodbye, Edmund.
Do you have what I told you to get?
He brings great news.
By watching their show, you’ll find out everything you’re likely to know.
The Turks are heading for Cyprus with a powerful fleet.
There’s a husband there who’s waiting to make you his wife.
Anyway, how are you, Jessica?
And we’ll leave together, like friends.  
Thank you.
Count Claudio, when do you plan to go to church and be married?
Knock, knock!
Pronounce them—it is just as nice to say.
Edward’s healing touch is a miracle that I have seen him perform many times during my stay in England.
I’ve told her father, and he’s given his permission.
And like I am for Rosalind.
She had a premonition of what has actually happened.
Please, your Grace, tell me what crime I have committed.
Dead, dead?
I guess this is not a fish, but a native who got struck by lightning just now.
You won’t enjoy it much, I can tell you, the odds are so against this young man.
I long to be immortal.
And you deadly cannons that roar like thunderbolts thrown by the gods, goodbye!
Look, look!
For a necklace your husband had him make.
That’s how I always do it, getting money from fools.
Ah, Juliet if you’re as happy as I am, and you’re better with words, tell me about the happiness you imagine we’ll have in our marriage.
I asked you for gold to pay my soldiers, and you wouldn’t give it to me.
You won’t regret this.
What’s your name?
Oh, Sir Toby, stop!
Yes, let her die and rot and go to hell tonight.
My sweet darling cries when she sees me work and tells me that such a wonderful man never performed such lowly tasks before.
Please go away, both of you.
No faithful subject ever rejoiced more at the discovery of most dangerous treason than I now rejoice that I was thwarted in a damnable undertaking.
An enemy to tyrants and a friend to my country.
No, it’s just after twelve; I heard the clock strike.
You stay on the left.
He couldn’t eat without me talking about it.
Come on, let’s go see King Edward.
My back aches too—
Caesar was a tyrant.
It’s a job meant for a man, but not you.
May my wrinkles forbid that!
Get out!
Pinch my nose?
Gallus, you go with him.
And even though you were brought up as a gentleman, you patiently tolerated more hardships than savages could withstand.
Drive it out of you.
It is, my lord.
So get ready to cut off the flesh.
Isn’t this war against me?
I swear to you— You have a good heart, and believe me, I’ll tell her that.
In the meantime, be patient.
Oh, she shows the torches how to burn bright!
Madam, good night.
Didn’t you hear her, guys?
Then he’s the whining schoolboy, with a book bag and a bright, young face, creeping like a snail unwillingly to school.
Are you crazy?
Tell me, Voltemand, what’s the news from the king of Norway?
I can’t do everything I want to, but I’ll help you as well as I can.
Speak, speak.
Have him come to me here, soldier.
Yes, Casca.
Today Pompey laughs away his fortune.
Where’s Cesario going?
Me too.
My brother has a daughter who looks exactly like Hero; this girl is heir to both our estates.
Since my beauty no longer pleases my husband, I’ll weep away what’s left and then die with weeping.
If she returns my jewels, I’ll stop pursuing her and apologize to her.
Descend.
Like the wind, I must have the freedom to blast anyone I please, as fools do.
Yes, ma'am.
Oh, what a mean low-life I am!
Ladies, you’re dropping bread from the heavens to starving people.
Your eldest daughters destroyed themselves and died in despair.
And what did Surrey say to that?
Tell us, old Egeon
I hope you’re an expert in your field.      
Treat me like you would treat a dog—kick me, hit me, neglect me, try to lose me.
Didn’t they pass by you?
Why are you treating my sister like this?
I’ll go to him.
We hope you feel better and find some peace.
I’ll have my head cut from my shoulders before I’ll see the crown so misplaced.
Oh, Lord, if they were married, they’d drive themselves crazy within a week.
Good idea.
Whom you swore you would protect and defend.
You’re getting in the way of our work.
We meant to tell the king that his orders have been carried out, and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
He hadn’t arrived by the time we finished eating, so I went out looking for him.
Very humid, I can’t tell you how humid it is.
Anyway, go tell your master I am here.
When did I say all that?
A woman who doesn’t know how to make her own indiscretions look like her husband’s fault is hardly a woman.
But their trick failed.
But she has had prayers read for her and is dressed up like a pure virgin, with flowers tossed on her grave and the bell tolling for her.
Let’s drink through midnight.
Sweetheart, go on.
It’s true, I confess.
I don’t think so.
And yet I do love you.
What’s happening to me, that I’m frightened of every noise?
I won’t stand for it.
Well then, you have good reason to be sad.
Either my eyes deceive me, or I see two husbands.
I told him we’ll stay for at least a month, and he says that he hopes we’ll stay longer.
You’ll find I’ll give it to you very willingly.
Look in on me, and talk with me, or I’ll attack even without a weapon.
So please listen to me.
There is nothing on Earth that is so evil that it does not provide the earth with some special quality.
Be quiet and listen to me.
The general and his wife are talking about it now, and she’s defending you strongly.
He’s been over there practicing how to act for the past half hour.
He received me with courtesy and sufficient respect, but not with affection, nor with as much open and friendly conversation as he once greeted me.
Did you kill him, then?
I’ll take you and your wonderful virtues here and now, if it’s okay that I’m picking up what others have thrown away.
Tell me so I can be sure, though I swear I recognize your voice.
Write to me very soon and I’ll let you know what she thinks.
Oh, finish what I’ve begun.
What’s that trumpet for?
Mark Antony will say I’m not well, and to please you I’ll stay at home.
Therefore, great king, we surrender our town and lives to your kind mercy.
You will always be welcome to me. 
I don’t know why he’s come here.
As I was working on one musty room, the Prince and Claudio entered.
First let’s go to dinner.
Where are my father and my mother, Nurse?
Honest Iago’s arranged that.
I’ll take no lesser name than that of  Something that refers to my current state.
Nothing, good sir, except to help Sir Cobweb scratch my head.
So why does it seem so particular to you?
You scolded me often for loving Rosaline.
Help me out of here.
What else can I say?
Virtue is beauty, but someone beautiful and wicked is like an empty box decorated by the devil.
Where did we leave off?
Darn it, if I’d guessed he was so brave and such a good swordsman, I never would have challenged him.
Sadly, it’s the king that’s missing.
But there are many herbs that will help him rest and take his mind off his anguish for a while.
Please, I’m asking you, go ahead and get back to your state affairs.
Good.
It looks great.
Yes, my lord?
You and your fellow spirits did your last assignment well, and now I need your help again.
Is  Would your Mightiness care to wash his hands?
What, faithful to being mean and nasty?
My dear master, my captain, my sovereign, let me say before I strike this fatal blow
Those cowardly, gigantic sides of beef have been responsible for many of your family members getting eaten as a condiment on beef.
I hope not, Madam.
What time is it?
He is worth more mourning than that, and I will mourn for him.
Sextus Pompeius is sailing toward the port of Rome.
How can you test them like that?
Let’s go to the temple first.
I’ll go now to find out the date of the wedding.
But to say that Tybalt’s dead and then say, “Romeo has been banished.” To say that is like saying that my father, my mother, Tybalt, Romeo, and Juliet have all been killed, they’re all dead.
The whole world thought your father was an honorable man, but he was always my enemy.
Signor Valentio and his cousin Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.” That’s a nice group of people.
We are destined to be betrayed when we are born.
I don’t even have one to throw at a dog.
Can you help me?
We had a little food and fresh water that a nobleman from Naples, Gonzalo, had given us out of the kindness of his heart.
I hope to God I’m wrong about your chances.
No, I don’t, my lord.
It would make any man as mad as a bull to be betrayed like this.
Anyway, he is what he is.
Hello, everyone!
Yes, he was hotheaded even in the prime of his life.
Goodbye, then.
The man’s going crazy.
And now she’ll start moaning, of course— Are you asleep, my love?
Oh, wine is the devil!
This was the basket.
Cambio.
I always loved you.
I’m only trying to keep the peace.
Don’t be cruel, Demetrius.
Read it.
I was engaged to both of them.
I played Julius Caesar.
The world’s huge.
You take my house away when you take the money I need for upkeep.
March to meet him at a dignified pace.
Three months from twelve months of the year.
What’s wrong with my niece?
My gallant girls!
That was when I was young and inexperienced and didn’t know what passion was.
But that’s just a fairy tale.
Should we go see the sights in the town?
You’re not going to take him.
It is for your ears only.
Therefore, dear Isis, do the right thing and give him the fortune he deserves.
Or is he walking?
Captain, I have a favor to beg of you.
fast and pray to stave off temptations.
It’s much better to be destroyed by a noble enemy than by a cruel and heartless one.
Until I know for sure, I’ll humor her.
I hope you both get drenched with a dew as evil as what my mother used to collect with a crow’s feather from the poison swamps.
Welcome.
But like I said, on the night of Lammas Eve, she will be fourteen.
Oh, there’s been a lot of quarreling.
It’s better here than outside.
Very pale, sir.
He’ll grow up to be a proper man.
Be a careful mother, madam, and think about your son, the young prince.
My dear Portia, if you knew who I gave the ring to, for whose sake I gave the ring to him, why I gave it to him, and how unwilling I was to leave it when he wouldn’t accept anything but the ring, you wouldn’t be so angry.
A greater power than we can fight has ruined our plan.
That our clothes were drenched with sea water, but they came out looking brand-new.
But do you think that’s what he’s aiming for?
And pay attention to what Caesar does and which men are close to him.
Go on.
Indeed, Hero herself can!
I don’t know what you’re talking about.
Antony’s wife should have an army to escort her, with neighing horses to announce her arrival long before she appears.
I love you with so much of my heart that none of it is left to protest with.
But if you have the stomach for it, you’ll have all the help from me you need.
His counselors will govern as long as he’s a minor, and then he’ll take over.
Come on, woo me, woo me.
Does everyone kill what they don’t love?
But she must be, Friar.
And thus I let you go and give you to the gods.
Iago is gesturing for me to come closer.
Exactly like that.
Please, if you can do it without taking advantage of the young man, buy the cottage, pasture, and flock for us, and we’ll pay you for it.
I’ll cure you of your insolence, and I’m not going to give you a thousand crowns, either!—Hey, Dennis!
Go on, tell it.
Don’t follow me.
Who’d waste his time talking to such a stupid bird?
It’s true, they’re inconsistent.
I believe it.
And like mine, but I’m getting a little tired of it.
Be quiet, boy, or you’ll lose your mind.
Go inside yourself.
From the Earth’s womb, many different sorts of plants and animals come forth, and the Earth provides her children with many excellent forms of nourishment.
If you hadn’t shown up on cue, my lord, Lord Hastings was going to take your part—I mean, he was going to speak for you—in the crowning of the king.
Here, my good lord.
I don’t know, ma'am.
I’m glad about that.
Why, she challenges me like a Muslim would challenge a Christian.
It was carried to Colmekill to be placed in the tomb of his ancestors, where their bones are kept safe.
Are you hiding your forehead with a golden crown, when, if there was any justice in this world, it should be branded with the murders you committed—your slaughter of the prince who held that crown, and of my sons and my brothers?
No more about that, please.
So, tell us, did you see that thing again tonight?
Come on, then.
Tell me where you’ve stowed away my money, or I swear I’ll break that comical head of yours for goofing when I’m not in the mood.
No, dear Queen.
A lover would have to be weepier, of course.
By the end I will either live, or else I’ll restore my honor by shedding my blood.
What crimes happen so early in the morning that I have to wake up before the usual time?
Go on.
You’ve said it, friend, and farewell to you.
Show.
Oh, you mean when Beatrice writes a letter and Hero sees that it has “Benedick” and “Beatrice” written all over it?
Dark as hell, Sir Topas.
Cheer up and be at peace.
If it’s okay with you, you should not press your grievances any further, but realize that the current situation should be enough to reconcile you.
I don’t know any fancy ways of talking about love, only to say right out, “I love you.” If you press me any further than with the question, “Do you really?” my love scene is over.
That’s what I intend to do too.
Let’s play.
Sir, you need a drink.
Just now, my lord.
Pharmacist!
How awful!
Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
He’s pale and hyperventilating, as if a bear were chasing him.
No, with Demetrius.
The moon?
Here it is.
He’s made me a little sore, I’ll admit.
Take a trumpet, herald.
No, sir.
I assure you, my man is as true as steel.
Look who’s coming.
Yes, as kind as snow to a harvest.
My spirit friend, Harpier, is yelling, “It’s time, it’s time!” Dance around the cauldron and throw in the poisoned entrails.
Why are you calling him a jerk?
Brutus, you give a nice speech along with your evil strokes.
Aren’t you a rational human being?
You’re smart, though, and if you were sick, you’d take what you needed to get better.
You may as well try to turn the sun to ice by fanning its face with a peacock feather.
I’ve promised them I would, and they’re expecting it.
I’m afraid my Thisbe has forgotten her promise!—And you, oh Wall, oh sweet, oh lovely Wall, you stand between her father’s property and mine, you Wall, oh Wall, oh sweet and lovely Wall.
I enjoyed a sweeter rest than sleep.
What’s that noise?
Here, sir!
He will die.
If the English had any sense, they would run away.
If you married my sister for her wealth, then for her wealth’s sake, treat her with more kindness.
I will.
See how he stands between two clergymen!
Tell me, do I have your consent to kill them?
That’s right, except for the widow Dido.
Unless you’re talking about his love for this kind of foolishness—which, judging from his appearance, he has—he is no fool for love, as you pretend.
No, definitely not!
Stop!
Well then, saint, let lips do what hands do.
Here is his Majesty.
If there’s anything more sorrowful left to add, keep it to yourself.
Would your highness like to take a walk?
Where are you going?
I can’t do this.
I’m a man, my lady, that God has made for himself to ruin.
Oh, Pomfret, Pomfret!
Don’t talk to me.
Stop it, I order you.
Banquo and Donalbain, Malcolm!
How is my generous sister?
Don’t run away—stay where you are.
Let’s slash their backs and grab ’em like we do rabbits, from behind.
Please let me go.
What, Gertrude?
I’m not insane, Sir Topas.
How will you wreck this marriage?
Villains, you didn’t do even that much when your vile daggers struck each other as they hacked up Caesar’s sides.
I mistook you for that sly Venetian woman who married Othello.—You whorehouse-keeper.
Oh, Tranio, what a cruel father he is.
Soldier, why are you wearing that glove in your cap?
Now, I swear by Saint Peter’s Church and Peter too, he will not make me a joyful bride there.
Quiet!
Let’s get out of here!
These recent eclipses of the sun and moon don’t bode well for us.
Take him to my sleeping area.
They’re all dead.
Well, old man, I’ll tell you news of your son.
I am a man again.
Places, everyone!
I’ll be right next to you.
By God, I order you to speak.
Marry her as you should have married her cousin, and I will let my revenge die.
I won’t argue with her, so her beautiful body won’t disarm me.—Tonight, Iago.
If Cleopatra heard you, you would be well punished for your audacity.
Be brave like the lion and proud.
So, she’s in on this too!
He’s right over there.
Why did you once seem lovely to me?
He thinks he’s still playing his instrument.
You can see my ribs so well you can count them.
No, follow him now, before he divulges the prank and ruins everything.
Or maybe, to make it even more lovely, I’ll sing it when the heroine dies. 
I don’t mean he’s 
Good-bye.
Who should begin?
I’ll drink later.
Something about Cyprus.
I’d trust him with everything I own.
The more you beat me, the more I’ll love you.
Cruel, cruel news!  
I met my father in the woods yesterday and had a long conversation with him.
Rest easy in the meantime.
Send your man away.
Come with me.
Is she dead, then?
I’ve become an enemy to my own soldiers!
Go on, master, and I will follow you—with truth and loyalty to my last breath.
Will either of you give him the message that I’m challenging him to a duel?
I’ll marry the earl of Warwick’s youngest daughter, Lady Anne.
You knew that my spirit was completely under your control and that I would ignore the gods’ orders in favor of yours.
Not someone who doesn’t share that disposition, meaning Mark Antony.
Oh, that’s not true, my lord.
What did he do to you?
They call us drunks and insult our noble titles.
Yes it is, you half-blood.
You have to read us the will, Caesar’s will.
That she did.
Now, before God, our whole city owes this friar a great debt.
Let’s shake on it.
Some people kiss shadows.
Come, let’s go.
Madam, I am not well.
Everyone knows that when you pour a drink out of a cup and into a glass, the cup becomes empty.
Good day to you, Captain Fluellen.
Even the traits that become me most kill me when you don’t approve of them.
The old king was so overjoyed by this promise that he gave young Fortinbras an annual income of three thousand  I like this news, and when I have time I’ll read this and think about how to reply.
Now please go.
We’ve got it now.—Do you see this, my good fellow?
Is he crazy with love for you?
A lot of words.
Oh, God help me!
Your servants are waiting.
Read the will.
I’d rather have lost my legs in battle than be a part of this!
Honestly, I didn’t see it, but I felt it in her hot breath.
Yes.
Get on your way and hire those horses.
About the table, sir, dinner will be served on it.
A friend would never see those faults.
Do you know who I am?
The things men do daily, not knowing what they’re doing!
I beg you to pardon me.
I won’t trouble you yet with questions about your situation.—Some music, please, and, good friend, sing.
Please invite them in.
If we’re all pork-eaters, we won’t be able to get our hands on a slice of bacon, even if we’ve got the money for it.
Where are the thousand 
Soldiers, sir.
Now you sound like a man.
What, in our own house?
But how long will “ever” last?
If luck’s with me, I’ll lose a father, and you’ll lose a daughter.
Now, if that’s true—and it’s obviously true—who’s in a better position than Cassio?
Very well, ma'am.
She’s round, like a globe.
Good-bye.
A loud-mouthed, drunken monster.
First of all, even if all the obstacles were eliminated and my path led straight to the crown—if it were truly my birthright—I would rather hide from my greatness than hide inside the greatness of the position itself and be smothered by it.
If everything else fails, at least I have the power to take my own life.
Your Majesty didn’t present yourself as the king.
Is it that aggressive?
That means it’s high time for me to go.
Come on, you.
I forgot about the reward.
He says he’ll come.
I did.
Wonderful!
I’m afraid you’ve sold your own land to see other men’s.
Curse you!
Even if I have to die—as they threaten—I have to help the king.
Your guardian angel is noble, courageous, significant, and unmatched when Caesar’s not around.
When he raised his arm in command, the world trembled.
I’d hate to waste my speech on the wrong person, because It’s very well written and I spent a lot of time and energy memorizing it.
You thug!
You should be whipping yourself, since you lust after her and yearn to do the same thing for which you’re punishing her.
I’m coming, slut!
What, are you afraid?
Since he has the jewel I loved, which you swore you’d keep forever, I’ll be as generous as you were to him.
Answer me that first.
What is making our eyes and ears act so strangely?
If he has a face like yours, a good scratching couldn’t make him look any worse.
By nine o'clock.
I swear by this hand that I love you.
It’ll be my job to talk about how Benedick is sick with love for Beatrice.
Cassio was wrong to hurt Montano, who was only trying to help him, but I’m sure the guy who ran away must have offended Cassio in some terrible way, and Cassio couldn’t let it pass.
She’s talking, but she’s not saying anything.
She trembled and shook because he stamped and swore and carried on as though the vicar were trying to put something over on him.
Do that, my friend.
The man should be inside the lantern.
Can you blame him?
Oh, that’s ominous!
Then follow me and listen to my speech, friends.
It would be a pity to throw them away for nothing, but if it’s a matter of choosing between them and a great cause, then they’re worthless.
He won’t fight with me, Domitius?
Why didn’t they just kill us that night?
Let’s get started right away.
Great Mark Antony is a widower now.
They probably put him up to killing old man Gloucester to get his money.
Oh, my good lord, don’t make me insult music again with my awful singing.
Hold off burying her until I’ve caught her in my arms once more.
Or do you want me to criticize her like I do all women?
It sure is.
Even if marrying her meant I died.
Why, may I ask?
Oh, come quickly!
Sir, I know you, and I trust you enough to share something very important with you.
Why are you enraged?
What’s this?
But I don’t have any good sides.
Follow her.
Welcome, good Robin.
Thrice noble lord, I beg you to excuse me for another night or two—or at least until nightfall.
What’s he talking about?
Me, ma'am?
But only hint at this vaguely, because, as you know, my mother’s still alive.
I don’t like it.
Go and tell them this.
Oh, dainty duck!
Indeed I do, sir, and I’ve come to let you in on a certain problem.
But fathers who are rich Make their children kind.
This is the inventory of the money, silverware, dishes, and jewels that are still in my possession.
My name’s Macbeth.
Yes, if I’m still alive, and you’re still sane, and your dinner is worth eating.
My God, she can’t be a Jew, she’s too nice!
How can I marry him, this husband, before he comes to court me?
I carry no hatred, holy man, because my request will benefit my enemy.
It’s the blessed sun.
Are you so pious that you would pray for this man and his children, a man who has pushed you toward an early grave and put your family in poverty forever?
We can’t think that way about what we did.
Madam, please let me see your face.
Oh painful day, Oh painful day!
You’re wise!
And he doesn’t let go of his target when a distraction appears.
But don’t be afraid, Cesario.
Welcome, lady.
As I remember, Henry the Sixth prophesied that Richmond would be king when Richmond was only a foolish little boy.
It is.
Won’t you tell me who told you that?
Merciful heaven!
I’m leaving now.
They swore that you were nearly dead with love for me.
But now it’s stopped.
Who are you talking to?
I would rather listen to my dog bark at a crow than hear a man swear that he loves me.
Our arms, which can be strong and cruel, and our hearts, filled with brotherly love, embrace you with kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
And you’ll speak on the same platform as I do, after I’m done.
Isn’t my vest just as clean and fresh as the day I put it on?
Stay with us tonight.
It’s clear that someone less noble, less loyal, more bloody-minded than Clarence but not a blood relation, deserves as bad an end as my brother, but he goes free.
Who tricked you?
Will you say grace, sweet Kate, or shall I?—What is this?
Your servants were fighting your enemy’s servants before I got here.
Okay, to the point.
I have a favor to ask.
Now I say good night to your bones, Hero.
I know my rights.
Be careful not to fall in.
Would you like some more sauce to go with it?
My God, they’ve given me a lot to drink.
My uncle the king is to blame for this.
Who can explain this to me?
Everyone.
As for his cowardliness, ask Fabian.
Keep me in your thoughts and go comfort your cousin.
I won’t fail.
Can’t you see for yourself?
She would make a good wife for Benedick.
I love him even when he’s harsh and mean—Help me unpin this, would you?—I love even his stubbornness, his frowns, his bad moods.
Hero thinks Beatrice will surely die, for she says she’ll die if he doesn’t love her, and that she’ll die before she tells him, and she’ll die if he woos her and she’s made to hold back even one of her usual insults.
And to make it even clearer, we can tell them that I’m playing Pyramus but I’m not really Pyramus—really, I’m Bottom the weaver.
Who sent you this time?
Death and damnation!
I needn’t be ashamed of your Majesty, God be praised, so long as your Majesty is an honest man.
Too quickly, we boarded a ship.
I gave him no order.
Who, me, my lord?
But will it be soon?
There are lots of ways to get on the general’s good side again.
Foolish girl, in the eyes of most people this man’s a Caliban, and compared to him, they’re angels.
Tell me, how did you get in here?
Here, 
Get up from your beds as if you were rising out of your own graves, and walk like ghosts to come witness this horror.
Ah, how pitiful!
Then your other senses must be getting worse because of the trauma of blindness.
Tell me, you unknown power— He can read your thoughts.
What else is love?
Come, ask me to do anything for you.
A false conclusion.
Happy with Hermia?
Hail, brave friend!
He has a ring of mine, worth forty ducats, and he promised to give me a necklace in exchange for it.
Go ahead.
Anger does not protect the angry well.
I have a good eye, uncle.
Give me one good reason to think she’s cheating on me.
Listen to that Petruchio
Here’s another, stronger than the first.
My deep trust in him made him deeply untrustworthy, arousing in him a treachery as big as my trust was—my trust which had no limit, an infinite confidence.
Even for a  Good morning, lieutenant.
But Count Claudio can stay, for what I’m about to say concerns him.
The same people who say he gets drunk with you every night.
Where is the king?
Othello’s career is over.
Did heaven watch the slaughter and not send down any help?
I’d wager twenty times as much on my wife.
Is that possible?
Why, madam, have I offered you my love only to be flouted in front of the king?
He can’t give his house away to his daughters, leaving himself without shelter.
And when the mind is engaged, the rest of the body, dead and dull before, wakes up and comes to life with a new nimbleness and sensitivity, like a snake shedding its dead skin.
It’s nothing, my lord.
Something there isn’t a word for.
Anyway, I have to say goodbye to you now.
Tell him I want to speak with him.
Don’t think I’m so dumb that I don’t know that the devil himself won’t eat a woman.
May your sword be victorious and everything you do succeed. 
The law’s on my side.
Good luck, worthy soldier, and good-bye.
Come, death, and welcome!
Malvolio, your vanity is damaging your good taste.
This is the way to trick gullible fools.
It won’t matter.
Come with me.
My doors were locked and I was shut out, right?
I did not kill your husband.
The Earth is nature’s mother and also nature’s tomb.
Then you told a lie, a sick, wicked lie.
Why, sir, I spent it on this rope.
Please, write down “Borachio.”—And yours?
Sir, I’m half-blind.
Yes, if you kept them together and invested them.
For three months, hmmm.
You’re poisoning my eyes.
Give me your hand.
But I’m still fairly high-ranking.
In my imagination, Horatio.
It is rather cold, indeed, my lord.
Yes, I’ll wipe my mind clean of all trivial facts and memories and preserve only your commandment there.
You’re not going, sir.
I’ll miss you, Ariel, but you’ll be free.—Yes, you will, yes.—Go to the king’s ship in your invisible state.
He acts like a man in love.
Oh, are you really!
It’s a common  What?
You are to bring his daughter to the supper.
Every old man has worries, and worried men never get any sleep, but young men shouldn’t have a care in the world.
Look at other beautiful girls.
Madam, that young man out there says he’s got to speak to you.
Bring here The gentleman who advised you To give away your land.
Take me to Octavius.
Say, isn’t this the Latin master Cambio?
Put on a happy face, and welcome your friends.
Are you going to pay the eight shillings I won from you in a bet?
Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I can find young Romeo?
If you meet the Prince in the night, you can order him to stop.
Ha!
I’m not going to waste any more time with you.
I could do it easily now.
They ought to be whipped for being so stupid.
Please tell me.
Make her sterile and dry up her womb so that no baby will ever come out of her body and honor her.
But no beautiful woman has an honest face.
But wait a minute.
If you still love her after that, then marry her tomorrow.
What, you?
Well, by this I can see that you don’t love me as much as I love you.
No matter.
I believe it completely.
Let’s get away, Tybalt.
His name’s Cinna.
Sit down and rest.
Welcome, destruction, blood, and massacre!
Gentlemen, I don’t know what you intend to do, who else you intend to kill, who else you consider corrupt.
I’ll be no king of England if I’m not also king of France.
Back so soon?
But come on, start.
Where are you from?
Motley is the only thing to wear.
What, you don’t say a word?
What’s that?
No, my lord.
When he stands where I am and sees you there.  
Go then, slave.
Will you be my husband, then?
You know, I saw the Duchess of Milan’s gown, the one that everyone praises so highly.
What’s going on between you two?
So then, you must think that hairy men are honest and simpleminded.
Shall I come down?
If they march along unopposed, I will sell my dukedom for a sodden, filthy farm in that craggy isle of Albion.
If you’re Stephano, touch me and speak to me.
Quiet!
She’s the one who’s got to do it.
I pity your situation.
Upon my life, my lord, I’ll do it.
She is welcome to stay.
Go look for him.
Sir and madam, to make grand speeches about what majesty is, what service is, or why day is day, night is night, and time is time is just a waste of a lot of day, night, and time.
I always pray for them 
Okay, let’s go!
What do you think?
Were you listening to these verses?
He swore that he’d never get married, but now, despite his earlier protestations, he loves ungrudgingly.
Are you sick?
I think that our father will leave here tonight.
Be a nice fool and help me find a candle and some paper.
Her ladies-in-waiting saw her go to bed, and early this morning the bed was empty.
My beautiful warrior!
The sentence I’ve passed down on her is firm and unshakeable.
Gentlemen, we won’t stay here and anger you further.
I’m as commanding as she is proud, and when two raging fires meet, they end up consuming the very thing that kindled them.
Let’s go!
If I may say so, your Majesty, as I see it he would be a coward and a villain not to.
I thank you very much on his behalf.
Good grief, do you think that just because I’m dressed like a man, I have a man’s patience?
Of course the Prince wants Hero for himself.
If arguing makes us sweat, the real trial will turn that water to blood.
The forests, the skies, the mountains, everything around us seemed to echo the barks of the hounds.
What was I saying?
Even though Birnam Wood really did come to Dunsinane, and I’m fighting a man not of woman born, I’ll fight to the end.
When?
You should have reprimanded him for that.
Will you fight well?
He was like a schoolboy who finds a bird’s nest and happily shows it to his friend, who then steals it from him.
The sweetest nut has the sourest rind And Rosalind is that kind of nut.
What’s wrong, cousin?
Was it long or round?
God protect me from these two!
Sir, fifteen days of March have gone by.
They’re as opposite as hot and cold.
What’s that, you runt?
My Lord of Norfolk— Here, most gracious king.
Once there, make your thoughts work harder, and witness a siege.
Yes, that’s the one.
I am arrogant, vengeful, ambitious, with more ill will in me than I can fit into my thoughts, and more than I have time to carry it out in.
Then may your daughters be cursed with all the horrible fates that await sinners!
What in the world made you risk your reputation like this and become a street brawler?
We’re ready if our minds are ready.
Yes Signior?
Don’t believe any of us.
Some villain has told lies about me.
What?
The moon has set.
I think I hear them.
Oh, not you again.
This is unbelievable!
No gentlemen, don’t get ready to go now.
My dear friends, thanks for your patience.
Why, so did you.
Isn’t she proud of such a match?
Why bother with them?
It 
Regret and everlasting shame sit on our helmets, mocking us.
Look, he’s moving.
I heard myself declared an outlaw and escaped capture by hiding in the trunk of a hollow tree.
Change into better clothes.
Well, what’s your plan?
And return to us immediately, bringing Messala with you.
But I’ll admit I don’t care for you.
The Jew will have justice.
Is he alone?
By Hercules, I think I’m right.
You think I’m kidding.
I’d endure it until he came home again.
Oh, honey!
Life is a story told by an idiot, full of noise and emotional disturbance but devoid of meaning.
But now we don’t have to!
Let me refer to a proverb that may help you forgive these lovers
Yes, the leader of the team; the one that gets you if you can’t pay a debt; the one who assumes people are always going to bed and says to them, “Have arrest.” Well, sir, stop your joking there.
She deserves to have rocks and stones thrown on her body.
First of all, my house in the city, as you know, is filled with expensive furniture and household articles, china and gold, basins and pitchers for her to wash her dainty hands in.
Yes, my lord.
I can’t talk about my happiness anymore.
Come, Romeo.
There’s no ambiguity here.
Better men than you have heard me speak my mind, and if you can’t take it, then you’d better plug your ears.
When I said that, I told you the truth.
But I would rather abstain from everything for four days than drink so much in one.
Can we have some water please here?— Come and wash, Kate, make yourself at home.
I’m sure there was a herd of lions nearby.
Yes, indeed, bring them before me.
You admit it, then?
Surrender, dog!
I’ll follow in the center of the troop formation, which I’ll defend with my best horse, and with Saint George on my side, as well!
Who has wronged him?
I’m starting to lose my mind.
But a lot of old people act like they’re already dead—sluggish, slow, fat, and colorless, like lead.
Madam!
If I answered that question, I’d be making confession to you.
Me too, I swear.
Do as I told you.
Arm myself?
When will we get to the top of that cliff?
May I only do well in these dangerous battles if my intention to repent and prosper is sincere!
Wake up!
There’s no doubt that Petruchio’s got quite a catch.
How many things in life seem good to us because of when they happen!
And here’s Regan, whose grotesque face betrays her twisted heart.
I’ll humor him when he learns how to behave.
What’s his name?
Hold your peace.
So be calm.
Well, that’s an  Stay, fellow.
Two reasons.
What is it, sir?
It’s undeniable.
I swear, it must be thirty years.
I can’t say “whore.” It makes me sick to say the word even now.
Tyranny is dead!
Sister, let’s eat and stop worrying.
Leonato’s daughter had told us everything.
Come on.
The most beautiful queen they ever had.
I’m sorry, sir, but in this war I consider you a subordinate, not my equal.
Even if we fail at that, we can still fight him on land.
Foreign savages who eat their own children for dinner will be as close to my heart as you, ex-daughter of mine.
Now, by St. George, my knighthood, and my crown— The first you profaned, the second you dishonored, and the third you stole.
It is the best horse in Europe.
Why, my boy?
I won’t consider it.
Still the same old Cassius!
Spread the word.
She flirted with the messenger boy to exasperate you, fire up your passions, and make you angry and jealous.
It’s been eleven years since the earthquake.
For no man, sir.
Invoke his warlike spirit and that of Edward the Black Prince, your great-uncle, who fought a tragic battle on French soil, routing the French army in full force while his mighty father stood by on a hilltop, smiling to see his son steeped in the blood of French noblemen.
You can figure out the rest.
If I let him go, I’ll have to pay his bail fees myself.
And a bad singer, my lord.
Oh, go away, you’re a boring fool.
That’s the end of the announcement.
Let’s go.
Take this. 
Just look at me kindly, and I’m invincible against their hatred.
But his punishment was bitter death.
So be quiet.
I’m biting my thumb.
Do as you please, because I’m done worrying about you.
To hell with you!
Please, Rosalind, my sweet cousin—be happy.
Go to her and tell her for me.
I swear, he’ll be food for the crows soon.
Fifteen years!
Who brought it out here?
I’m not Cinna the conspirator.
I hope you’re not trying to cheat me.
Each day new widows howl, new orphans cry, and new sorrows slap heaven in the face, until it sounds like heaven itself feels Scotland’s anguish and screams in pain.
I won’t sleep until I see her, Hortensio.
I can’t offer her more than all I have.
Listen to him speaking in quarter notes!
There is no world for me outside the walls of Verona, except purgatory, torture, and hell itself.
I tell you, this house is as dark as ignorance.
There is an emergency I must take care of, but my whole heart will remain here with you.
I wish the fool were dead and married to her grave!
Bring the villain forward.
You’re not one of Pinch’s patients, are you, sir?
What, from myself?
Send out more cavalry.
Leave me and do what I told you to do.
Excuse me, sir, do you know anything about this?
A duke who is noble in name and character.
This is the most miserable hour of all time!
An important droplet is hanging from the corner of the moon.
If there are any, speak, for it is he whom I’ve offended.
The gods forbid!
Do you mean the king?
But I would kill you by petting you too much.
Oh, Antonio, I’m sorry I caused you so much trouble.
Don’t let the heavens hear these chattery women abuse the Lord’s anointed king.
Yes, that’s quite likely.
My master is standing out in the street!
I’ll go with you.
Why?
Are you talking, you villain?
But oh, how odd it is to have to ask for my child’s forgiveness!
He’s a knight.
Why are you hiding that letter?
I bet it’s a challenge.
Did you go to bed so late, my friend, that you’re having a hard time getting up now?
My vision is dull.
It’s my men who should call me “lord.” I’m your man, your fellow.
My own ears heard it, and you know it.
She had put a wreath of fresh, fragrant flowers around his hairy forehead, and the drops of dew that lay in the center of the flowers made the flowers look like they were crying with shame to be decorating the head of that ugly jackass.
Who can command the forest and make the trees pull their roots out of the earth?
But do you really think the Prince would treat you that way?
Tell me anything you remember.
Oh angels, protect us!
Please go inside.
Amen to that.
Though I have far more reason, I don’t have as much energy to curse you.
Take me to the man my husband is in debt to.
That was one hit.
Take this garment, put it on, and then come back here.
I’ll find him right away, sir, and carry out the business as well as I can.
There, Diomedes, there.
Continue, then, and don’t forget to perform all of the rituals.
What did you say, uncle?
But she loves it so much (since Othello told her she should always keep it with her) that she always keeps it near her to kiss it and talk to it.
My strength is all gone, as if in a dream.
Don’t reply.
What can I do for your highness?
Meet me at the synagogue.
What did he say?
I’m divided between two friends who are determined to kill each other.
I’d rather be hung in chains from one of our pyramids!
The one who claims to be your wife just ran away from you.
Quiet, quiet, Iras.
And can a person ever have too much of a good thing?—Come on, sister, you can be the priest and marry us.—Give me your hand, Orlando.—What do you say, sister?
Teach me how I should think and speak.
Oh, correct it completely.
I’ll tear it up when it’s paid.
Iago, I’m leaving my dear Desdemona with you.
Messala, today is my birthday—I was born on this very day.
Hey!
No, madam.
I agree.
When I first heard about him, he was still a bachelor.
I’m making a kind offer—zero percent financing.
I saw a thousand shipwrecks, a thousand men whom fish had gnawed to the bone, huge anchors, chunks of gold, heaps of pearls, and precious jewels—all scattered on the bottom of the sea.
What’s the news?
It was urgent and important enough to require his personal presence.
I’d bet my life that, as young as you are, you’ve fallen in love with someone.
He was the captain of a flimsy boat that was practically worthless because it was so small.
Where’s Seleucus?
I regret not observing him more closely before I told you to do that.
Go get me something I can use to break down the door.
A  What’s going on?
Some tardy cripple must have taken the counter-order, who came after Clarence was already buried.
Good old knight, gather them all together at my tent.
Yes, mother, but I wish I hadn’t.
I’ll drink as much as you do!
He’ll have to kill both of us, and indeed we’re both men.
Good lord!
The reason is that it’s what I want.
Just ignore him.
Good night.
Do you remember a Venetian scholar and soldier who accompanied the marquess of Montferrat here once when your father was still alive?
As long as that?
Oh, he hasn’t?
We don’t want it at our festivities.
I’m afraid he’ll punish me.
Will you come?
We rejoice to see you, most worthy brother of England.
He deserves only honor, complete honor.
She’ll be here soon, just like her letter said.
When you’ve finished, go back to Pompey’s theater.
From the earth, or the air?
I’m sure he’s out there dancing.
Why do you ask?
That’s what her mother always tells me.
I’m yours forever.
Control yourself, my precious Queen, and concede that my love is true.
Yes, return and tell me if your master looks well, because he was sick when he left.
But we’ll obey.
Tyrants themselves wept when they heard about it.
I should have known it.
And so do I. I think we all do.
You expect me to cry?
Love each other and be friends, like two such men should be.
You can’t do that.
You could have come sooner.
Good day to both of you.
How goes it, friend Eros?
What do you say to that, Malvolio?
Stand up.
Tomorrow you need to get more money sent to you.
They’re friends—Ratcliffe and Lovell.
If he’s so sad and solemn when he’s young, I can only imagine how much he’ll cry as an old man.
That was too much.
No, I’ll slit the nose of the villain who would have sent me to jail.
I swear that Claudio will pay dearly for this.
Once, on a cold and windy day, when the river Tiber was crashing against its banks, Caesar said to me, “Cassius, I dare you to jump into this rough water with me and swim to that point there.” As soon as he spoke, though I was fully dressed, I plunged in and called for him to follow.
Were you born here in the forest?
Let me shake your hand.
My name is Petruchio, son of Antonio, a man well known throughout Italy.
They say there are only five people on it.
You don’t need a ghost returning from the grave to tell you that, sir.
Are you playing tricks on me by showing me savages and uncivilized men from the Indies, ha?
Bring Desdemona here.
How’s the queen?
Oh, unfaithful lover!
He was graced with lots of natural gifts, he was young, valiant, wise, and no doubt meant to be king.
Who’s shouting “murder”?
But he told me to get lost and threatened to hit me, kick me—even kill me.
Oh, the sixpence you gave me last Wednesday to buy leather goods for my mistress?
Tell me what you want.
That’s not a job for a friend, my lord.
No one has ever faked passion as skillfully as this, then.
Your head is as full of fights as an egg is full of yolk, but your head has been beaten like scrambled eggs from so much fighting.
I remember the first time Caesar ever put it on.
It’s a capital offense for anyone from Mantua to come to Padua.
We have in fact seen better days and been summoned to church by the ringing of the holy bell and sat at good men’s feasts and cried tears of pity—therefore, sit down and take whatever will satisfy your needs.
Thirty-five or thirty-six of his knights met him at the gate, and together with some others they’ve set off for Dover, where they claim to have powerful friends.
Where else would she be?
Is that why you’re talking so wildly?
Where are my good fellows?
We want to hear it, Antony.
Get to the point, since we already know the truth.
Where is my Romeo?
Who’s there?
I didn’t realize he knew her.
He’s praying now.
Brutus, may I have a word with you?   
If that’s true, it’s a serious fault, and Caesar has paid seriously for it.
What kind of fighting cock is this?
Take comfort.
Lead the way.
Well, then, that’s how it is.
I’m tired of this moon.
He is made of treachery, and has run away to avoid his crimes.
I swear— —each actor arrived on his ass.
I put it in the pocket of my nightgown.
But I see you’re troubled.
Every subject’s duty is the king’s, but every subject’s soul is his own.
Cobweb.
What do you think you’re doing?
He won’t have a chance.
Don’t say anything.
How about the mustard without the beef.
What’s this man’s reputation like here in the city?
Now my sin has been taken from my lips by yours.
My lord, I’ll say goodbye now.     
Let’s go, Tom.
Who?
I see him revive himself to praise my noble act.
Please, sir, have patience.
Who’s dead?
You annoying idiot, what Epidamnum ship is waiting for me?
Then he says I didn’t return some ships he loaned me.
So I recommend you take note of what I’m about to say.
All the rest of the conspirators acted out of jealousy of great Caesar.
Your life has had honor in it.
Who is it?
Tell her that the king, who has the power to command people, asks her.
What, everybody falls asleep so fast?
Just let me say one prayer!
And it might back up other evidence that may seem too flimsy.
Yes, I am.
Well, the  Shall we get moving?
No, villain, but you didn’t work alone.
The four suitors are looking for you so they can say goodbye, madam.
I tell you, I’ll either make him eat some part of this leek or give him a four-day head-bashing.—Go on, bite.
Bring me an exact report of the number of dead on both sides.
Come on, Nerissa, I have many things to do that you don’t even know about yet.
If you read this, Caesar, you might live.
We’re three of them.
Wait, look!
But insincere men, like horses who are too lively at the start of a race, make a big show of their spirit.
Leave me.  
See—I’ve sealed his fate with this mark next to his name.
Raise all the money you can.
And that’s everything, Leonato.—Claudio, Benedick—my dear friend Leonato has invited you all to stay here at Messina.
Put the torch out, so I can’t be seen.
What’s going on here?
He is, because he told Antonius to tell you he’d be there tomorrow.
No, by Our Lady, I’m not such a fool to think what I please, and I don’t please to think what I can, and in fact I cannot think, even if I could think my heart right past thinking, that you are in love or that you will be in love or even that you can be in love.
My only sin was loving you too much.
Oh, I hate looking at his face now!
Everything would be produced without labor, and would be shared by all.
Brother Anthony—
Who are the actors?
I want to head out tonight.
Have you forgotten all the talks we’ve had together, the vows we made to be like sisters to one another, all the hours we spent together, wishing that we never had to say goodbye—have you forgotten?
Kill Brutus and be honored by the killing.
What’s the obvious conclusion from that?
Why, he has an income of three thousand ducats a year.
No, I’m begging you now, tell me who it is.
The enemy’s losses have been very great, pretty substantial.
May God in heaven bless you.
Will you cry about your cousin’s death forever?
I still insisted on knowing what the matter was, but you wouldn’t answer me, instead giving me an angry wave of your hand and telling me to leave you alone.
I know him well by reputation.
They pulled out the guts of the sacrificed animal and couldn’t find its heart.
You’re a king’s advisor.
Drunk?
Too fast is as bad as too slow.
No, cousin, I’m going to Fife.
But I will go out, for these bad omens apply to the world in general as much as they do to me.
I’ll say goodbye once more.
There she is, over there.
Me too, I won’t, I swear to God.
Think about it.
Where’s Peaseblossom?
Ah, you’re here?—Come on, gentlemen, let’s go!
In fact, the real nightmare had only just begun.
I’ll try talking to him again.
What do you mean, beside yourself?
Not really, unless you were ugly.
Is your other mouth calling my name?
We have not yet set the coronation day.
What name, madam?
Oh that great, funny guy, Bottom!
You lie.
Aren’t you dead yet?
He’s welcome too.
This disease is beyond my medical skills.
Many men use that excuse to avoid giving gifts.
The boy was going to support me in my old age!
Here comes the king, the queen, and the noblemen of court.
He looks skinny, like a dried herring without its eggs, and he hasn’t got his girl.
Have them come in front of the master constable.
I wish it were day!
As I said before, Antonio will guarantee the loan.
Do you agree that Ferdinand must have drowned?
I wonder if the lion’s going to talk.
Get out of my sight, or I’ll give you what you deserve and spoil Caesar’s victory.
What an idiot I was to think this drunkard was a god and to worship such a stupid fool!
For what favor?
Right away, Caesar.
I give you my obedience and my humble service, madam.
I’ve often given money to people who were unable to pay back their loans to him.
God help you, foolish man.
What’s the matter?
Here’s my hand.
I loved one speech in particular.
Orsino.
Rosalind, I have to leave you for two hours.
This is it, for now.
There, Leonato, take your daughter back.
What, that’s all?
One criminal punishes another.
I can’t pull a cart or eat dried oats like a horse.
Well, he’ll be dead, so he won’t see anything.
We have to strike while the iron’s hot.
And like I am for no woman.
I have neither cleverness nor rhetorical skill nor the authority nor gesture nor eloquence nor the power of speech to stir men up.
Dolabella, I will always be in debt to you.
Yes.
Right, and well said.
Yes, you’re speaking very well.
You dance and prance and lisp; you call God’s creations by pet names, and you excuse your sexpot ploys by pleading ignorance.
Is that possible?
But Edward is still alive.
With Cassio?
When it’s paid, bring your friend back.
He used to praise his mother’s nipple before he sucked it.
It’s unbelievable.
You’re absolutely right, your highness.
Messala!
Where did he go?
No, I had to do something.
Oh, he’s been betrayed, and I’ve been ruined.
Take him off to jail!
But even so, I’ll make doubly sure.
What are you saying?
She was too good for me.
Let go of my hand.
Oh God!—Oh Nurse, how can this be stopped?
In bed with her?
I can do anything!
Two unlucky children of these enemy families become lovers and commit suicide.
Just remember that he is Caesar.
Richard, a fiendish spy for hell itself, still lives, but only long enough to buy souls to send below.
Yes, boy, I’m ready.
He doesn’t have any daughters, sir.
Sir, I know I’m not a flatterer.
What’s new, cousin Lodovico?
He’s dead and rotting in the dirt now.
What part of her body is Ireland?
Goodbye.
Inside the little rind of this weak flower, there is both poison and powerful medicine.
I told them to take  Oh, what a big mistake!
Come here, sir.
Hello!
Who, Sir Andrew Aguecheek?
You wrong me in every way.
M”—Malvolio.
Good morning, old Sir Thomas Erpingham!
So, my sweet brother-in-law, go inside.
Yes, boy.
Be quiet, people!
For God knows how many healthy men will shed their blood in support of whatever you persuade me to do.
No one may be bolder than my Lord Hastings.
I wish you could!
I will sit here in the middle.
Gracious King Edward has sent us noble Siward and ten thousand soldiers.
Where are they?
Oh, Luciana, did he tempt you like that?
One smile from him would repair my decayed beauty.
His imagination is making him crazy.
Yes, let’s do that.
It’ll be lunchtime within an hour.
If we’re  Hello, Monsieur Le Beau.
Let’s stay and watch a while.
A man is master of his own freedom
Good morrow, neighbor, whither away so fast?
Dear God, please make him normal again!
What do you mean, your highness?
If she admits she wanted this, then I won’t blame Othello.—Come here, my child.
Don’t just swear by it; put your hand to some use that will prove you love me.
Yes, my lord.
Who’s that?
Do you lie so low?
Good Captain Blunt, tell the earl goodnight from me, and tell him that by two in the morning I would like him to visit my tent.
I could do more to help Antony, but to do so would insult him.
Listen, your Romeo will be here tonight.
But how?
Peter!
Leave all the rest to me.
Goodbye.
Now, tell me—which of my bad qualities did you fall in love with first?
I’ll debate this with you later, and then I’ll teach you to listen more carefully.
Hunting what, Curio?
I’m glad to see your highness.
I’ll get it done right away.
Thank you, and God bless you for your hospitality.
I am at your service.
Do you remember anyone who died of it?
I don’t mean that she wants me because  What’s she like?
Oh painful sympathy!
So let me sleep next to you.
So, I agree with noble Buckingham—only a few should go to meet the prince.
And Juliet’s just as much in love as he, but she has even less opportunity to meet her lover.
What’s going on?
Look at the three little dogs, Tray, Blanch, and Sweetheart—all barking at me.
And Cassio’s killed?
I had my father’s signet ring in my pocket, with the royal seal of Denmark on it.
Not bad; you might accomplish something.
I won’t take it.
Come on, bring them in.
Take revenge for his horrible murder, that crime against nature.
Let me live here forever.
And as king I’ll love you forever.
Caesar and he are better friends than ever.
What support did we have besides our father?
Why, what’s the matter?
Otherwise, I’ll do it anytime, as long as I’m able.
No one here is affected by your curse, because curses are just words with no power.
The French are still fighting.
I hereby grant your request, and hope you have a good time.
That’s old news.
Now, soldiers, advance.
And Rosencrantz!
Lovers, moan and weep.
But for your private satisfaction, because I love you, I’ll tell you.
May God keep you well, sir.
Then run away.
No, my lord.
Don’t be afraid of greatness.” That was well written.
If you insist on trying my patience any further, then take out your sword right now.
How could he be in debt without me knowing it?
I will.
I’m serious, I can’t.
You love me in spite of your heart, I think.
Thank you.
And why are you so pale?
Goodbye, Jessica.
Now the time is right for us to speak, and we do so with imperial authority.
But here’s a paper with Caesar’s seal on it.
Cassio, my lord?
Shut up.
Good-bye.
Remember your children as being sweeter than they actually were, and think of the man who killed them as worse than he is.
You’ll grant me, you hedgehog?
Now my friend Petruchio will help me out, presenting me to old Baptista as a schoolmaster for Bianca well-versed in music.
The hour has almost come when I have to return to the horrible flames of purgatory.
I’ll never see my gold again.
Are you Tyrrel?
A little food and a huge welcome makes a joyous feast.
I know I can do it.
There, take it, and thanks for taking such good care of me.
Thank you.
The door’s right here.
They have to stay there.
So could I.
I held the sword and he ran on it.
Me too.
You can push my buttons, but you can’t play me for a fool.
You’re a bitter fool.
Will you come with me?
Drowning is for cats or blind puppies—don’t drown yourself!
Damn your wine!
From the time I was seventeen, over sixty years ago, I have lived in this house, but now I will live here no more.
Listen Tranio!
I wish I were senseless, sir, so that I wouldn’t feel your punches!
I’ll bring you to him.
I’m afraid something dangerous is coming toward you.
The poor thing, I really think she loves me.
The laws of Venice state that if a foreign resident directly or indirectly attempts to kill any citizen, the person he tried to kill will receive one half of the foreigner’s goods.
I explained how you were deceived, how you were thwarted, the things that were used against you, who was working against you, and a lot of other things that would convince even a half-wit or a crazy person to say, “Banquo did it!” You explained it all.
They won’t pinch me, frighten me, push me in the mud, or mislead me unless he tells them to.
Then heaven have mercy on me!
What have I said in my grief?
I could live a thousand years and I wouldn’t be as ready to die as I am now.
No!
Sir, I make my living using an awl.
The other day I saw him defeated in a
I don’t know.
I regret my crime more than my death, and I beg your Highness to forgive me, while punishing my body with death.
Then heaven have mercy on me.
That was excellent, really excellent.
How are you doing, Cassio?—Someone bring me a stretcher!
Then I beat my drum, at which point they pricked up their ears and opened their eyes, looking around for the source of my music.
The brilliant Sir Topas!
Why do you look so depressed today, your Grace?
I, who have heard the rumble of guns in battle—and thunder in the sky (heaven’s version of artillery).
As a matter of fact, if the playwright had played Pyramus and hanged himself with Thisbe’s belt, it would have been a very good tragedy.
Oh, Kent, what could I ever do to become as good as you are?
Bring him my head.
We found him in the churchyard.
How long do you plan to stay here in this forest?
Take your seat.
I breathed from my soul the most faithful offerings to your ungrateful altars that any devoted person has ever offered—what more am I supposed to do?
Now I’m in a great hurry, as I’m sure you can see.
Since I can’t amuse myself by being a lover, I’ve decided to become a villain.
He’s as brave as a fox.
I wouldn’t want a heart like hers even if you made me queen.
A sword’s too heavy for you to wear.
You’re right.
My uncle is king of Denmark, and the same people who made fun of him while my father was still alive are now rushing to pay twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for miniature portraits of him.
But first, I’ll dump this fellow in his grave, then return to my love weeping with grief.
You see how the world goes, Volumnius.
I would be glad to forget about it, but it weighs on my memory like sins linger in guilty minds.
What, does the news only get worse?—Please, Bassanio, I’m half of you, so let me bear half the burden this letter brings you.
They should advance immediately, because I sense Octavius’s side is a bit fainthearted right now, and a sudden push would overthrow him.
Again!
Farewell!
Hello, mortal!
Did I do anything good to myself?
You’ll pay for this if I ever see you face-to-face in the daylight.
He discovered that the man was his older brother.
The news I have to tell your majesty is that Buckingham’s army has dispersed from sudden floods and heavy rainfall.
Just notice.
I’ll tell you more later about when and where we met, how we fell in love, and how we exchanged promises, but now I’m begging you
Should I do it now?
Then meet me right away at the notary’s.
Tomorrow, and then every day after that.
Lead me to where you’re standing.
Whose house?
But don’t be afraid to take the crown that belongs to you.
Then who took my letter to Romeo?
To find a husband for her sister.
What should I do that I’m not doing?
Well then, he’s God’s soldier now!
Who pays their way?
I’ll do it.
Not from crying.
If we crown him, I have to admit we’d be giving him the power to do damage.
Did you notice how the queen’s guilty relatives turned pale when they heard about Clarence’s death?
I’ll tell you as soon as I know, Richard, because at this point I have no idea.
He’d begged me to steal it many times.
That might be the case sir, 
Here, madam
That’s right, she did.
We came here to fight against you.
Were you born here?
He will, sir, if He wants to.
There’s not a strand of feather left in our whole army—a good sign, I hope, that we won’t fly away like birds—and time on the field has made us slovenly.
This is pure insanity.
Agincourt.
I mean a husband.
I’d second your wish if it automatically meant that Lucentio could have Baptista’s youngest daughter.
Not one drop sooner.
If you don’t mind, I’d like to speak with you.
Oh, yes, I’m sorry, uncle.—If you’ll excuse me, your grace.
Yes, sir.
All right, now I’m starting to lose my cool.
We’ll outwit them all—that old geezer, Gremio; the suspicious father, Minola; the prim musician lover, Litio—all for the sake of my master, Lucentio.
That’s definitely true, my lord.
I hope I see him and hear him again soon.
Puppet”?
Did you find my daughter?
Old age always makes people act funny—even wise people, but fools more than anybody.
I laugh at any weapon used by a man who was born from a woman.
He died on Viola’s thirteenth birthday.
Nobody like that should be trusted.
You look like you have something more to say.
I saw her face as she walked with her brother and Mark Antony.
Yes, for your own safety, you should deny one thing
Shall we go send them food and fresh clothing and feed their starving horses before we fight them?
Can I have a word with you privately?
Alas, you don’t know.
Draw the curtains, just like that.
If I were, I wouldn’t need to ask you what happened.
Where are you going?
I know a lady in Venice who’d walk all the way to Palestine for a kiss from him.
What I think about this, and about what’s happening here in Rome, I’ll tell you later.
Is his ship sturdy?
No more than a minute?
Depending on what we plant—weeds or lettuce, or one kind of herb rather than a variety, the garden will either be barren and useless, or rich and productive.
He cut my head and gave Sir Toby a bloody head, too.
So, where’s my wife?
No, you’re just taunting me.
How are you, Charmian?
Oh!
And smelled like that, too?
Regan, is that what you said?
How are you, Hero?
Good countrymen, let me leave alone.
They burn for revenge.
We can’t be in two places at once, both here and there!
Where’s the gold I gave you?
I told him you were asleep.
We cannot fight for love as men can.
I’ll see her like this.
But go away now.
Take pity on Poor Tom, who is persecuted by the devil.
Do you want to sleep?
Gracious Queen, even Herod of Judea wouldn’t dare look at you unless you were in a good mood.
If I find an opportunity, I will give him a piece of my mind.
If there’s anyone in this assembly, any dear friend of Caesar’s, I say to him that my love for Caesar was no less than his.
Can I justifiably and in good conscience make this claim?
Go!
How are you, my friend?
Learn from the wise, and comprehend
Now sit down, everybody, and rehearse your parts—Pyramus, you start.
Take out your sword.
I won’t have anything to do with it.
Are you on duty again tonight?
Meanwhile, thank you for your efforts.
I’m locked up in a prison and deprived of food.
Like gambling, sir?
Or did you agree to this as equals?
They saw him just now as mad and deranged as the stormy sea, singing loudly, wearing a crown of nettles, thorns, hemlock, and all the other weeds that grow in our cornfields.—Send out a hundred soldiers to find him.
Yes, madam.
You’ve got something for me?
Has it been so long?
Come on, men!
Shake off your sleepiness.
Sometimes I’ll turn into fire!
Are you going to watch the race?
What we are is up to us.
I’m the one, Hamlet.
When evil is dominant, death soon kills the body like cancer.
The sky shows countless stars.
Your daughter and son-in-law.
Until recently, I was as unimportant to his affairs as the morning dew is to the wide ocean.
Look at you getting all riled up!
Be good enough to hear me out.
My lord, your promise of the earldom— Richmond!
And, my dear sister, as long as the winds are blowing and ships are sailing, let me hear from you—write.
For himself to ruin,” he says.
Take up my mistress' gown for his master’s use!
It’s true, this so-called “god”—he shook.
I’ll go and chat with Paris.
The total due is about three ducats more than I owe this gentleman.
Greetings, Caesar, my lord!
I’ll meet all your attacks, even if you come charging at me with a lance at full gallop.
Yes.
Sleep well there on the ground.
Let’s sit here and let the music fill our ears.
I’m sticking to the contract.
And now that I have the boy, I’ll undo the spell that makes her vision so disgustingly wrong.
Make sure that the clowns do not ad-lib, since some of them will make certain dumb audience members laugh mindlessly at them, while an important issue in the play needs to be addressed.
When you’ve finished, you’ll be a happy man.
I’ll just stay here till the storm passes.
But, oh no!
I want to be this Duke’s servant.
Brutus will lead, and we’ll follow him with the boldest and best hearts of Rome.
Didn’t you hear someone shouting?
Husband?
It’s almost five o'clock.
Leave you alone!
Whether I go ahead with them or not is completely up to you.
What if I am?
Romeo cried out, “Stop, my friends.
You get my point, don’t you?
There are only friends here.
Come, come, I know what you’re referring to, Richard.
But it’s dark out, and it could be a trap.
What do you think will be the result of this storm?
It’s Cinna.
No, cousin, I’m crying.
Me, a penny?
Wretched boy, you hung out with him here, and you’re going to go to heaven with him.
All right, then.
It was addressed to him, and orders must be obeyed.
Are you really as in love as your poems declare?
What a poor instrument, that can do such a noble deed!
In the end I left them standing in the smelly pond behind your room, with the stinking water covering them up to their chins.
Well, I don’t.
Tybalt was my nephew!
Please come closer.— Make the music louder, please!
The next bit of good news is that our ship—which we gave up for ruined only three hours ago—is as well-outfitted and seaworthy as it was when we first set sail.
The devil must be behind this.
Even more since you annexed my father’s house and lands.
Then I have offended no one.
What proof is there?
Is Horatio here too?
And I’ve been avoiding him all day.
You’ve heard a lot.
Heaven knows what he’s going to do with it.
I know who you are.
Stay!
I can tell you’re furious, but I don’t understand what you’re saying.
Yes, do that.
That’s for sure.
Come on.
Don’t ask me to talk about it.
If I don’t love her, I’m completely 
If you think about it correctly, Caesar has suffered a great wrong.
I was sure that you hadn’t given it to me.
I’ll take comfort in my books and music, reading and practicing my instruments.
You will love more than you are loved.
To kill the boys with the luggage!
Damn her!
Brutus killed me.
Yes, yes.
You piece of filth, you’re lying!
Don’t you have any manners, you savage?
No, I’ll be patient.
He brushes his hat in the mornings.
I’ll speak to them, and then tonight I’ll get them all so drunk that the wine seeps out of their old war wounds.
Thank you, sir.
I think so.
Where is that messenger?
Here, catch this box.
Our advance will so dazzle the enemy that England will cower in fear and surrender.
He’s having dinner tonight with a prostitute, and I’ll go visit him.
We’ll go together, and before we’ve spent all the savings of your youth, we’ll find a way to make a living.
That’s me.
And since you know you can see yourself best by reflection, I’ll be your mirror and show you, without exaggeration, things inside you that you can’t see.
I wish night would come, like a widow dressed in black, so I can learn how to submit to my husband and lose my virginity.
Oh, I see.
It warms my heart to encounter such a country bumpkin.
Believe what?
Don’t hurt me, please.
Give him a noose to hang himself.
Will you take me, my lady?
Yes, she said that.
As sure as I’m standing here, I saw him.
Well, God is responsible for that, not me, and he deserves thanks.
Let’s take a little walk in the orchard before dinner.
Goneril with a white beard?
Which ring did you give away, my lord?
What did he tell you, Ophelia?
We’ve advanced too far.
Tie him up harder.—You filthy traitor!
No.
That’s him.
Truly, madam, I don’t hear anything.
For a full half hour.
He was happy here, listening to a song.
Ever since Venus and her blind son plotted a way for the god of the underworld to steal my daughter away for half the year, I swore I’d never speak to them again.
You liar, you respond better to the whip than to kindness!
A murderer should look like you do, so pale and grim.
Farewell, King.
Swaggering?
Don’t tempt me to suicide again.
Music!
Turn right at the next turn, but at the following turn, turn left.
I obey all your thoughts.
The sound of lovers calling each others names through the night is silver-sweet.
Follow and see to it that nothing serious happens between them.
Do you know why the King of France suddenly went back home?
He is close to death, but not dead yet.
Ah, but I know you.
What do you want?
This is  It is, my lord.
I thought I heard a voice cry, “Sleep no more!
honor you.
Farewell, kind lord.
You bastard!
But in this way, grief and comfort appear together.
Well, well.
If you want to see your deceiver, then look at me.
I didn’t love you.
What are you  Nothing.
Oh, dear gods!
Robin Starveling, you’re going to play Thisbe’s mother.—Tom Snout, the handyman.
Wow, we’re really going to drive him crazy.
Never.
Are you a suitor to the girl we speak of, yes or no?
I’m in a mood to beat you up pretty good.
If I can’t do that, I can at least make the Moor so jealous that he can’t think straight.
I can’t even be sure these are my hands.
My noble king, my friends have informed me that Sir Edward Courtney and his brother, the haughty Bishop of Exeter, are now in  My king, the Guildfords in  My lord, the duke of Buckingham’s army— Enough, you 
Come on, Sir Andrew, there’s nothing you can do about it.
Say what you’re here for.
Yes, if I know the language and the letters.
The privilege of never seeing me again.
I hate the Moor, and there’s a widespread rumor that he’s slept with my wife.
And now he’s gone.
Come.
Let this evil hour be marked forever in the calendar as cursed.
I’ll hide behind the tapestry to hear what they say.
Sweet Phoebe, do not scorn me.
Go find out the news.
Farewell, kind master.
One more thing, good gentlemen.
Where’s your master?
Put on my crown.
Is it not enough, is it not enough, young man, that I’ll never be pretty enough to get a kind look from Demetrius?
Signor Antonio, you’ve often insulted my money and my business practices in the Rialto.
No, it was a little one, not more than a pint.
Yes, but how he adores Mark Antony!
Please treat my babies well.
I will my lord, as fast as I can.
How old is she?
With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must.
Curly golden hair moves so nicely in the wind and makes a woman beautiful.
I knew Temperance—she was a fine girl.
I know I will too, if it’s the last thing I do.
That’s why I’m worried about you.
Yes, I really think so.
Charles did the same to the second brother, and the third.
Forgive my boldness if I take you up on your words about making magic.
Look, here she comes, with your ungovernable wives in tow, like prisoners of her womanly persuasion.—Katherine, that cap of yours doesn’t look good on you.
My meaning  And I 
If I tremble then, you can call me a little girl.
Then every soldier must kill his prisoners.
Silence, then!
They’re playing with me.
Well, your imprisonment won’t last long.
And if he ever has a wife, let her be more miserable when he dies than I am now.
Do you really think that if it came down to my word against yours, anyone would believe you?
No, please good Meg, I’ll wear this one.
Do you want to hear it again?
Follow me.
Have a nice day!
Oh, you villain!
Her eyes are vicious, but yours are comforting.
Good spirit!
Oh, it’s as easy as lying.
Your last guess is right.
I’m at your service, madam.
My lord Sebastian, even though what you say is true, your way of saying it is tactless and comes at the wrong time.
I’m tired of you.
Good Macbeth, we’re ready when you are.
Good Mr. Peaseblossom, I’d like to get to know you better too.—And you, may I ask what your name is, sir?
She’s lying on the ground just like him, blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
Good-bye for a while.
And still do, I swear by my hands.
How can a tailor make a person?
But if I were smart enough to get out of this forest, I’d be wise enough to satisfy myself.
The king won’t live, I hope.
I’d rather be a squawking bird than an animal like you.
This is a majestic and harmonious vision.
Then they’re cold friends to me.
And so you do.
You haven’t been conquered.
I could have saved her.
Being satisfied with a job well done is payment enough.
I’ll hold on to your money and leave you for an hour.
Oh righteous God, how can I thank you enough that this meat-eating mutt preys on his mother’s children and forces her to join others in their grief!
Here comes my wife now.
Is there any natural cause for hardening of the heart?
We’ll talk about this later.
This bad weather isn’t good to walk around in.
Draw your sword, scoundrel, or I’ll slice your thighs like flank steak.
Has she already forgotten her brave husband, Prince Edward, whom I stabbed on the battlefield three months ago in my anger?
It’s the same with men.
But did your sister die of love?
What men have you lost, Fluellen?
That’s true, lieutenant.
Then it’s certain they’re heading for Cyprus.
Now that I think about it, I really want it.
Who was with them last?
Cassio, do you know who might have stabbed you like this?
What, there’s going to be a masquerade?
Then, if you dare to acknowledge it, I’ll take up my quarrel with you.
Menas, I don’t understand how minor quarrels can be superseded by greater ones.
I swear by the sun that when I leave here, it will be as your faithful servant.
And I think she’s at least thirty.
Slay!
Has there ever been a time—I’d really like to know—when I’ve definitely said something was true, and it turned out not to be true?
No.
Now that you speak of paper, I remember a funny story of Hero’s.
Don’t talk about Helena.
Too bad about the son!
Oh God, Iago, what can I do to win my husband back again?
I have to make do.
Oh, shut up!
Go to bed right this minute.
I’m strong-willed.
But Antonio’s certainly ruined.
But you promise you can keep a secret?
Farewell, sir.
Why not?
The moon looks sad to me.
Likewise, I’m young, and my sense of reason has just ripened.
Where are you from?
Be  Conrade!
What’s the news?
Look, my little spirit is sitting in a foggy cloud waiting for me.
It was just an accident!
Meet me and Gratiano at his house in about an hour.
Lecherous Cleopatra, may all the charms of love soften those withered lips!
And why does Lysander deny that he loves you, when he loves you so deeply?
Even that I could put up with.
Did you have to give them everything?
But wait a moment.
You scoundrel!
Groan?
But you don’t look as if you bring good news.
Is there any more, or is that it?
While I was looking for a flint to light it, I found this paper on the window, sealed up like this, and I’m sure it wasn’t there when I went to bed.
But love gives them power, and time gives them the chance to meet, sweetening the extreme danger with intense pleasure.
Why has all this been put on the table?
We have kissed away entire kingdoms and provinces.
I’m your neighbor and came courting first.
Come on, I won’t stand for it anymore.
How?
What fate is that?
Why don’t you go away for a bit?
If it’s that important, then let the women die.
If someone like me is fit to be king, let me know.
Can we go?
What’s going on, my lord?
Oh, God help me!
That’s a good one.
I have the authority to dismiss this court, unless Bellario comes today.
I did, my lord.
Here comes Oberon.
I hope you’ll recognize me when we meet again.
It’s not earlier than that, I tell you.
I can hardly keep myself from throwing things at him.
He’s offered me a lot of affection lately.
Let’s go offer up our lives 
Well, don’t face off with me.
Death, which has taken her away to make me cry, now ties up my tongue and won’t let me speak.
Brutus, what will we do?
Here he is, here he is.
I will advise him to speak as he usually does.
Will you, Strato?
Well, then, put your sword away.
I’ll say good-bye now.
Ha, ha, ha!
Two of my brother’s men, all tied up!
Enough.
Good lieutenant, is your general married?
Who said that?
None of us.
Right now; as fast as she can say the vows.
Captain Fluellen!
Listen, Hortensio.
I’m almost ready to break down hearing this much.
I would, my boy.
Well, it’s as plain as the beaten path to a parish church.
And he had a chain that once belonged to you hanging around his neck.
I’ll tell you truly what I think about the king in my heart.
Horatio, tell me something.
No, not for all the world.
Then everything must really be finished.
We’ll watch a whole play tomorrow.
As moral as me!
Another hit.
What are you going to do?
It’s as all-consuming and insatiable as the sea, and it can swallow as much as the sea can.
Romeo will answer the challenge.
Were you drunk when you seemed so hopeful before?
It is “music with her silver sound,” because musicians have no gold to use to make sounds.
I’m arresting you as a criminal.
Your Emperor is still a king among gods.
Our era should be ashamed!
If they refuse to come, get physical—use a whip if you have to, but get them out here to their husbands.
Do it immediately, or all your previous services to me were accidental, without purpose.
We will do the same.
What do you say to a piece of beef with mustard?
With crisscrossed laces?
Tell us, Othello.
Who’s shouting?
I would have met you by sea and again by land.
What did you do that for?
Men’s eyes were made to see things, so let them watch.
Hail to your majesty.
You said the enemy wouldn’t come down but keep to the hills and upper regions.
Just go after him and watch what he does next.
I will, lady.
Ah, I’ve got it!
I invite you all aboard my ship.
When devoutly religious men are praying, it’s hard to draw them out of it, because they get lost in the wonder of their contemplation.
Deal?
I swear by this hand and my father’s soul, the whole thing is a disaster.
I don’t know about that.
Oh nature, what were you doing in hell?
Signor Bassanio!
Look, here comes just the man we were looking for.
Come on, sir, let’s go.
Look at my face.
I willingly accept your offer and put my future in your hands.
Please, young man, don’t make me angry.
Your son will have my consent to marry my daughter.
Fool!
I’ll put on some poor and ragged clothes and smudge my face with dirt.
After you, sir.
Once we have covered the two servants with blood, and used their daggers to kill, won’t people believe that they were the culprits?
They were poisoned, then.
Not really, for the truest poetry is often the most artificial.
Oh, what better favor can I do for you than to kill the man who killed you with the same hand that made you die young.
Let George Stanley die after the battle.
Therefore, tell me, what is he doing at sea?
Here comes the lady.
But when our vices become habits—Oh, the sadness of it!—the wise gods blind us, shade our better judgment, make us love our mistakes, and laugh as we strut to our ruin. 
Men tend to be at their most irresponsible when they’re away from home.
I remember the plan.
He does hear me, and that makes me cry.
Caesar wouldn’t take the crown.
The Prince has made the match, and may God bless it.
I’m Launcelot, who was your boy, is your son, and will be your child.
Besides, he brings his fate with him.
Yes, I have great cause to be thankful.
No, I didn’t, but I did every night for the past year.
Look, how she blushes like a virgin!
Goodbye, my lord.
How are you feeling now?
Did you speak to him?
That’s what made him crazy.
I’ll do well.
What hope is that, may I ask?
Speak.
You, Roderigo!
But action speaks louder than words, so I’ll cut short these polite words.
Who’s there, in the other devil’s name?
What can I do for my lord?
We’ll follow you.
A piece of ice.
Oh, Pyramus, get up!
May God thank you for it.
Is it really true?
If I’m more noble than you, you’ve done me wrong.
That’s true, sir.
You don’t look well, Antonio.
Good thinking.
Is this the kind of world where we hide our accomplishments?
They’re such oversexed gluttons that I feel like we’re living in a pub or a whorehouse rather than a respectable palace.
Why do you think I’m making fun of you when I tell you I love you?
In that case I’m afraid you’re damned by both your father and your mother.
And earth!
And here I am, going crazy in the middle of the woods because I can’t find my Hermia.
Carthage?
No, don’t press up against me.
Tell me again, where did you leave those lowlifes?
Keep my cups full and treat me as you did when my empire was one of your fellow servants, obeying my commands.
Go get it and bring it to me here in the orchard.
You did.
Where have you been, my bravery?
Antony, it’s time to stop your wild hedonism.
And I think this is his house.
But maybe you don’t like mine, or his, or hers either.
I hear his footsteps.
Meet with the ambassadors.
But a handkerchief— God, I wish I could forget about the handkerchief!
You certainly deserve it.
We come to hate that which controls us.
The gods know— Oh, never has a queen been so betrayed as I have been.
A night isn’t much time for addressing matters of this importance.
What does that mean, sir?
I don’t care if you love me or not, I like the cap and I’ll have it or I won’t have any.
Mustardseed.
Perhaps  What, my love?
But regarding what happened between us, don’t ask—I can’t tell you.
Ma'am, you wouldn’t treat me like this if I were your father’s dog.
What am I, a cane?
Her eyes are saying something.
I’ll finish my lecture after dinner.
I’m in a good mood now and likely to give you what you want.
Not young enough to fall in love with a woman because she sings well, but not old enough to dote on a woman for any reason.
Are your doors locked?
What are you doing with a sword?
If you get what you want and you’re still not happy, you’ve spent everything and gained nothing.
No, I’d rather be married to a skull with a bone in its mouth than to either of those men.
If you’re a virgin, you’ll answer this question.
Didn’t you hear their shouts?
No, you’ll see, four days will quickly turn into four nights.
Therefore, in case he does, we must hold him back.
If we meet Macbeth’s army tonight, let us be beaten if we cannot fight.
My dear Caius, I’ll explain the task at hand to you as we walk toward the man we must do it to.
Caesar has sent— Too slow a messenger.
The nobleman’s are as huge as the underfed villager’s.
Nature took Helen’s  Cleopatra’s majesty, The best of Atalanta, And unhappy Lucretia’s modesty.
Speak, man, what’s the matter?
You wake up to have fun, and you start work when you go to bed.
Even their clothes are unstained, and look fresher than before the storm.
I’m going, I’m going.
Yes, my good lord.
Come here, you.
All these aging faculties tell me—and I cannot be wrong—that you are my son, Antipholus.
Put your straw hats on, have some fun, and dance with these young nymphs.
Yes.
In prison we’ll outlast hordes of rulers that will come and go as their fortunes change.
I don’t think there’s anywhere I’d rather die than in the king’s company, as his cause is just and honorable.
The will!
Are you insane?
He mustn’t go to prison.
The poor rude world doesn’t have her equal.
You thought because he didn’t speak English like a native he couldn’t handle an English club.
If it turns out that she really is running around on me, I’ll send her away, even though it’ll break my heart.
Poison never landed on such an ugly toad.
Niece, will you take care of those things I mentioned?
Be wise when you criticize me and keep your minds alert so you can judge me fairly.
I found her adjusting the crown on her dead mistress.
We’ll have one heart, one bed, two bodies, and one faithful vow.
We’ll all want our fortune told.
No way, then, I’ll run.
Who gets up from a meal with the same appetite he had when he sat down?
Look—his noble blood is still on it.
You’d be the funniest person in Illyria… if Sir Toby ever stopped drinking.
How is Hamlet?
I’ve stayed up with you for two nights now, and I haven’t seen any evidence of what you were talking about.
Who’s there?
Leave me alone.
Okay, just do this, noble Catesby
Run after that obnoxious messenger, the duke’s servant.
Noble people don’t answer to peasants!
You’ll be afraid to hear it.
Keep it from leaving, Marcellus.
Farewell, and thanks.
Knock, knock!
I lent my body once to make him rich.
I pardon that man.
So, so, so, so!
How can Caesar be a tyrant then?
Oh, if only I were a man!
I don’t know how to ask you for forgiveness, but I have to say something.
Do you need my help?
The things that threaten me have only seen my back.
Listen, listen!
Relent, and save your souls.
Tortured, 
However your wit and luck allow.
It is well done, and appropriate for a princess who has descended from so many royal kings.
That will happen before sunset.
I’ll pay you.
And when is he leaving?
And then what would I do with him?
I could marry you there, gentle Hermia, where the strict laws of Athens can’t touch us.
Listen!
That’s completely beside the point.
Is it now afternoon?
Why are you chewing on your lower lip like that?
It’s all over now, and so am I.  Let’s forgive each other.
I’m even happier that I’m not stupid, and I can learn.
I think so too.
Who’s calling me?
Right or not, it’s made you the Earl of Gloucester.
Listen, Dardanius.
Perhaps you’ve learned from life and not from books.
She’s calling out my name as if I were a bullet murdering her, just like I murdered her relative.
Merciful God!
Add details of your own to back up what I’m saying.
Just tell me.
Why not!
Look, he can become invisible.
Or it’s bottomless, at least
I’ve always been straightforward with you, so now I’m telling you what I think.
You’re so attractive when you smile.
You won’t get any bad cooks from me.
Goodbye then, Hero.
You won’t stand and fight.
Oh, dear husband, don’t believe everything you hear—or if you must believe it, don’t let it all make you angry.
Tomorrow night make sure that you are alone.
In that case, there’s reason to hope a man’s memory may outlive him by six months.
So I suppose your grace can truly say that I have lost it.
I’ll get him to come here, and you can ask him yourself.
The old priest at Saint Luke’s Church is at your command at all hours.
have lost, and the indignity we have endured, for which he is too insignificant to sufficiently pay us back.
Look out for him in the corner of the orchard as if you were a sheriff’s deputy.
Mark Antony is at dinner in Egypt and won’t be going outside to make war.
Come on, can I get you two to make up?
I’ll knock your teeth out, sir.
I hope you’re strong enough to do it.
I know how his mind works.
He’s a coward, a total coward.
We’re men beached on the sand, hoping to be washed out by the next tide.
What’s that music?
Listen, but don’t speak.
Be silent and go in.
down, and then say also that in Aleppo I once saw a Turk beating a Venetian, so I grabbed the Turk by the throat and hit him like this.
I’ll follow you.
How can this drama be so many contradictory things?
Are we bothering you?
No, he’s a devil—a devil, I tell you!
It’s a shame that you walk the streets with all the honest men.
Good morning, neighbor Gremio.
Listen to you, instructing me like a parrot would.
Tell the actors to hurry.
Listen, sad friends, though the gods may rebuke me, this news would make kings cry.
Friends, go.
A worthy fool!
Kiss her soft mouth, and we’ll be off.
A gullible father and a brother who’s so innocent that he can’t suspect anyone else of wanting to hurt him—these are the two fools I need for my plan to work.
And I swear by my wickedness (if I had any) that I am a knave.
He can’t go in there because of the candle.
That’s very soon.
Let’s assume that she has a reason, which you don’t know yet
I am his brother, and I love him very much.
And when she left just now, she said “Take care of this poor fellow here.” Fellow!” Not “Malvolio,” not anything referring to my low station in life, but “fellow.” Everything’s going perfectly.
I hope what she’s saying is well, sir!
We, now at our largest, can only decrease.
You are my love, my love, I think.
Are you there?
Then keep your vow, fellow, when you meet the man.
Why did he do that?
And who is England’s king but an heir of the great York?
CALIBAN  Stephano!
I’ll give the Queen a hearing and grant her requests if she either throws her dishonored friend out of Egypt or kills him.
Did he get away clean?
Myself?
Come along, though.
What’s wrong, Hecate?
Then surrender, coward, and we’ll put you in a freakshow, just like they do with deformed animals.
He’ll bring a lot of money to the person who owns him, that’s for sure.
Now I have to leave.
Even though I don’t see it, this lady thinks I’m a marvelously good-looking man.
Who is this bloody man?
Why, you’re absolutely right, cousin.
All the spirits hate him as much as I do.
What are you thinking?
Yes, my lord.
Here was a Caesar!
Didn’t I deserve anything more than a fool’s head?
Get yourself to a convent, fast.
What do you think about this change?
I think it was a year ago that I told you how much Margaret, Hero’s servant woman, likes me.
He’s safe, Antony.
I’ll bet my life you gave some woman the ring!
I think you’re all either bewildered or stark raving mad.
Well then, tomorrow night, or Tuesday morning.
I look forward to getting to know you better.
Listen, if you want a good laugh—and I mean a side-splitting one—then follow me.
Good-bye, good Queen.
But tell me what you’re fighting about.
Whatever we decide to do.
Oh, are you here, Iago?
You’re acting like an ass, don’t you think?
I was reminded of my son, even though I despised my son at that time.
What do you say, your Highness, about my just request?
He’s waiting outside.
You kick me out, he kicks me back.
I know where I’ll wear this dagger, then.
Please, pretty young man, I’d like to get to know you better.
Wasn’t that the best thing to do?
Great kings of France and England, I owe you both equal service and loyalty.
You’re thought to be the most 
He’s afraid to come in.
Someone knocks.
Do you know what Caesar intends to do with me?
You’ll fall backward when you grow up, won’t you, Jule?” And she stopped crying and said, “Yes.” Now you stop too, Nurse, please.
Where are his eyes?
Lady Luck is a fickle whore And never gives the poor a break.
This morning, they’ve flown away and in their place are ravens, crows, and kites, flying over our heads and looking down on us, as though we were sickly prey.
Sweet Hero; when I imagine you now, you seem as beautiful as you did when I first loved you.
Your Highnesses can both attest to the fact that I’ve strived mightily, with all my wits and energy, to bring about this royal meeting between you two imperial Majesties.
If things go well, bring the crowd to  I’m off.
Oh, it is my love.
After a little while, I’ll beat him too.
I bet she’ll chew him out.
Leave me quickly.
where it takes on some other horrible form that drives you insane.
He’s so flighty in his old age, as we keep noticing.
A tiny spot of evil casts doubt on their good qualities and ruins their reputations.
Look, love, see how devoted I am?
Grumio gave the order for how it should be done.
What does your grace want?
You look like a person who knows the business of war.
And I’m going to sleep.
And go away, witch, go away.
And to you, good sir.
A fair woman!
Which he’ll shove down our throats the way pigeons feed their young.
What’s that sound?
This is a pitiful sight!
No, madam.
Our Queen is dead too.
I know he holds me dear, but I haven’t asked him about the coronation, and he hasn’t told me.
They lie in bed while they dream about the truth.
And could you please take my servant to old Shylock’s house?
You come to me saying, “Shylock, we need money.” You say that!—even though you spat on my beard and kicked me like you’d kick a stray mutt out your front door.
Gremio, this is no time to compete over how deeply we love Bianca.
Hermia’s not holding onto me anymore.
Does anyone know if Donalbain is with his brother?
Become a better
The king is insane.
Out of love?
Ah, this place is too cold to be hell.
When I fell in love with Othello I made up my mind that I wanted to live with him.
Here’s an empty seat, sir.
The wildest animal isn’t as cruel as you are.
You gave us the slip, sir, the slip.
His messengers are waiting here to take me to him immediately, on pressing state business.
Oh heavens!
I’m Christopher Sly.
Signor Martino and his wife and daughters, Count Anselme and his beautiful sisters, Vitruvio’s widow, Signor Placentio and his lovely nieces, Mercutio and his brother Valentine, My uncle Capulet and his wife and daughters, My fair niece Rosaline and Livia,
He’s full of wise sayings and up-to-the-minute anecdotes
Abandon the person that has abandoned himself.
What a day this is!
There go the minstrels.
And what would that accomplish?
Madam, we have to go
If you hope to have your sins forgiven by Christ’s dear blood, which He shed for our terrible sins, you must leave and keep your hands off me.
They finished their business with Pompey, and Pompey has left.
Undress the statues if they’re decorated in honor of Caesar.
I hope we have the time some day!
And if I, your poor devoted servant, may ask you for one small favor, you will guarantee my happiness forever.
Is that the rope ladder Romeo told you to pick up?
God bless you and make you obedient, loving, and kind.  
How clever of you.
I don’t have anywhere to go, so I don’t need to see.
Oh no!
Let’s go.
Let’s drink to our general!
I’m not bringing any declarations of war or demands for cash.
I hope that’s all he loses.
Yes, you poor ghost, as long as I have any power of memory in this distracted head.
I wish I had a fault like that!
Let’s be light-hearted.
Caesar, you are revenged with the very same sword that killed you.
When I opened my eyes, I saw their swords out.
For the love of God, call a doctor!
I didn’t, either.
What happened, general?
He hasn’t told this to the king, has he?
That will never happen.
Oh!
It’s as strange as this other thing which I don’t understand.
What is it, Octavia?
Yes, husband.
But I surrender all this magic now, when I’ve summoned some heavenly music to cast a spell, as I’m doing now, I’ll break my staff and bury it far underground, and throw my book of magic spells deeper into the sea than any anchor ever sank.
Don’t snap at me.
And harm is getting close!
That young man who was just here.
You must have figured out who I am.
I’ll do what I can, more than I’d do for myself.
Thanks to your majesty.
Cheer up, Antonio!
I’m in a rush.
Cast spells with them, and “Brutus” will call up a ghost as well as “Caesar.” Now, in the name of all the gods, I ask you what food does Caesar eat that has made him grow so great?
I’ll never be satisfied with Romeo until I see him .
Informed them”?
Isn’t there a guard around?
If he said that, then I hope his malicious soul rots in hell forever.
Sir, let’s get to the point.
Oh, it’s horrible, horrible.
I have news, ma'am.
You are a remarkable person and your loss is equally remarkable.
It looks like these witches are scared of swords.
I could find it in my heart to beat him— Come on, kiss my feet.
I promise I will.
Go ahead, use your authority.
We still have hope. 
Cassio’s been wounded.
Yes, the duke of Buckingham and I have just returned from visiting him.
For some reason he’s in prison now on some legal technicality, on Malvolio’s orders.
So I welcome this wind freely.
Good Lord, how bright and splendid is the moon tonight!
Oh, this day has turned into a disaster!
Be quiet for a while.—Robin, take off his donkey head.—Titania, get the fairies to play some music, and make these five people sleep more soundly than humans have ever slept before.
My first question for Nerissa is whether she’d rather wait till tomorrow night or go to bed now, since there are only two more hours till morning.
Who are the new commissioners?
Good gentlemen, look like you’re rested and happy.
Let your thoughts make up for our imperfections.
Hurry, hurry, close the curtain quick.
I sent for you about a sad occasion.
Call him over here, good Monsieur Le Beau.
Nobody but the fool, who’s trying to soothe the wounds in the king’s heart with jokes.
No, Romeo will respond to the letter’s writer, telling him whether he accepts the challenge.
A spirit?
But I say amen to everything she said.
Well, then, there!
So, listen, Hermia.
Don’t you hear me speaking?
Caesar, I never believed in omens, but now they frighten me.
It’s easier to buy young people than to beg or borrow them.
And here he is.
I’ve made a risky investment.
Oh, my lord!
I’m not Lear.
When asked the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall if I could take pity on the king and shelter him from the storm, they took my house away from me and ordered me never to talk about him, lobby for him, or support him in any way.
Skip over all the particularities between then and Harry’s return to France.
Have you snuck over here to watch the wrestling?
Then make a circle around Caesar’s corpse, and let me show you the man who made this will.
Here comes the owner of one piece.
The queen is dead, my lord.
Poor Tom, your cup is empty.
He smiles so much his face has more lines in it than a map of the East Indies.
Mark Antony— Pardon me, Caius Cassius.
Bring in more wine!              
Where am I going?
Then, hold my sword and turn your face away while I run on it.
Doesn’t that make you want to cry?
What do you mean, do I think so?
My strange self-delusions just come from inexperience.
A ghost, a ghost!
You’re hitting close to home there.
And then he’ll … he’ll … wait, what was I about to say?
It’s lovely to see you.
You know that he does.
Do you lie still?
It means peace and love and a quiet life, supremacy based on reverence and profound respect, and—not to go on and on about it—everything that’s sweet and happy.
Well, then, I hope he chokes on it!
I wouldn’t change it except to make you think of me, my darling queen.
Let me speak my mind, and I’ll rid the world of its sickness—if it will only tolerate my medicine.
Tell us about this wrestling.
Believe me, I’ll draw my sword as quick as any other man if I see a fight starting and the law is on my side.
I think you’ve been frowning too much recently.
Then go gather your men, but leave behind your son, George Stanley.
I’m telling you all this out of affection for you, so you can either keep him from carrying out his plans or prepare to accept his disgrace, which will be his own fault, not mine.
No.
I am tired.
Next time God sends out a shipment of hair, I hope he gives you a beard!
If it turns out he wasn’t, certain people are going to get it.
Oh, if you only knew how close to success you are, even while you make fun of what I’m telling you!
But I, who have never known how to beg and never had to beg, am starved for food, dizzy with lack of sleep, kept awake with curses and fed with brawling.
Know the glove!
Spirit, we have to get ready to meet with Caliban.
Servant monster”?
I am content, if that’s the way you want it.
Please stop turning me around.
Don’t you care about me?
You’ll see that Caesar is giving you no reason to do so.
Don’t talk to me.
Oh cousin, cousin, cousin, my sweet little cousin, I wish you knew how deep in love I am.
What do you mean, get rid of him?
For more important things, you’ll say no.
Besides, according to the French historians, King Pepin, who deposed Childeric, based his own claim to the crown of France on his descent from Blithild, the daughter of King Clothair.
He’s as 
How is your Highness?
You are nothing like Mark Antony!
Pretty York, who told you about his teeth?
He has epilepsy, a disease where you fall down.
Yes, madam.
Here, drink to me.
This is the place.
Francis Flute, the bellows-repairman?
This is what happened
What did I do?
What would I do besides good?
You, constable, are representing the Prince himself.
From this moment on I have a higher opinion of you than before.
It will be hard if “Cambio” loses her.
Is he still alive, good uncle?
You’ll fight with him eventually, and  The duke, my father, loved his father very much.
The fractured world, in its confusion, should send lions into the city streets and humans into the wilderness to live in lions’ dens.
This is a horrible sight.
Your stockings should be falling down around your ankles, your hat flying off your head, your sleeves unbuttoned, your shoes untied, and everything about you demonstrating carelessness and misery.
Pay attention to Metellus Cimber.
We’re close enough now.
No, sir, I won’t let you go.
We want to hear Caesar’s will.
You are too expensive to wear every day.
You hear the charges.
Words before fighting.
Those who smile at it will soon be dead themselves.
Has anyone offended your Worship?
The sound is going away.
Let me keep weeping for such a great loss.
Where are your tenants and your followers?
Look, here I have Macbeth’s cursed head.
And when I told you he was involved the whole time I was trying to get Desdemona, you were like, “Oh, really?” And then you frowned and wrinkled up your forehead as if you were imagining something horrible.
Howl, howl, howl, howl!
Give me an almanac.
Very good!
Good night, everyone.
I almost recognize that voice.
I haven’t seen him for two days.
Two great enemies, in fact, enemies to my peace of mind.
Oh!
What’s the name of this forest behind us?
Yes, even if I had whole kingdoms to give along with her.
And is it healthy to walk uncovered and breathe in the dampness of the morning?
Iago’s a good man.
Regan, I hope you didn’t know anything about that.—Ah, who’s this?
I have a good reason to cry, but my heart will splinter into a hundred thousand pieces before I let myself cry.—Oh, Fool, I’ll go mad!
Let me go.
She said she loved me for the dangers I’d survived, and I loved her for feeling such strong emotions about me.
They both begin with the letter “R.” Ah, you jokester—that’s the dog’s name.
So they are possibly Antony’s friends.
Call the Duke of Burgundy.
He can hold his fingers in a V-shape like this, and Pyramus and Thisbe can whisper to each other through that little crack.
These sweet thoughts relieve me and refresh me, especially when I’m slaving away busily.
Keep him away from me!
Let’s go.
There’s more knocking.
Not even to get her fan, or her gloves, or her mask, or anything?
What’s happening now, Lucillius?
My lord, here is the entrance.
Wake Duncan with your knocking.
What’s up, Catesby, what does your master say?
Well, so-so.
Yes, good idea; that’s the 
No, who are you talking about?
Which is the lady I’m supposed to marry?
While the armed hand fights in foreign lands, the wise head defends itself at home.
What is it, Biondello?
Write to him immediately.
The gown was made just as my master was directed.
Stop!
I want to avoid that.
Let’s pray that we never come into conflict like that again.
No, my lord, your polite words are not to the point.
What do you think of this fool, Malvolio?
That governs the torso and heart, doesn’t it?
Absolutely—he is stuffed, like a dummy.
My lord, His Majesty wanted me to tell you that he’s placed a large bet on you.
Imagine them locking me out on a night like this!
You’re getting too angry.
Come with me, I’ll show you, and along the way, you can tell me where you live.
This used to be a great puzzle, but now I’ve solved it.
With no more ceremony than that?
Good-bye, until you return tonight.
When I meet this gentleman, I’ll tell him what you’ve said.
I’ll meet you at your tent.
Don’t be afraid of her company.
One face, one voice, one way of dressing, but two people!
Good luck, fair gentleman.
God help Claudio!
Don Pedro is here.
It will rain tonight.
What should I say to her?
I’ll scratch out your eyes, even if they could fly.
That’s a good point.
Are you all crazy?
I’ll tell him right away, my lord.
Foolish dogs, blindly running straight toward a Russian bear only to have their heads crushed like rotten apples.
Yes, I do.
Your ear is good.
Signor Lodovico?
I love my master, and he’ll find me very hard-working.
If not, come when you have the courage.
You know that the style of a man’s jacket or hat or coat means nothing.
He wouldn’t get drunk much, since there’s no wine here.
She’s shut inside a dead man’s tomb!
Good.
You’re torturing me, Tubal.
Goodbye.
Absolutely, people should be what they appear to be.
Don’t ask me anything.
Where are you taking me?
He liked to call me a loan shark; let him think about his debt to me.
If they aren’t, they can go hang themselves by their own laces!
These are gracious tears.
Did you say Cassio?
You got to me first.
He’s recruited Bocchus, the King of Libya; Archelaus of Cappadocia; Philadelphos, King of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas; King Manchus of Arabia; the King of Pont; Herod, of Judea; Mithridates, King of Comagen; Polemon and Amyntas, the kings of Mede and Lycaonia, and many more.
He’s giving her a taste of her own medicine.
My brother Gloucester’s voice?
The new challenge scared them about as much as sparrows frighten eagles, or rabbits frighten a lion.
Your wife, sir, your wife.
It wouldn’t surprise me, my lord.
The Prince and Claudio are hurrying this way.
Quiet!
Well, good night.
Why do you want to do that, my lord?
Regret that your mouth betrayed your actions.
Would I send a lie?
If it does pass, the Church will lose more than half of what it possesses, because the bill would strip us of enough real estate left to the church by wealthy, pious men in their wills to support fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights, six thousand two hundred squires, and a hundred well-supplied almshouses for the relief of lepers, old-age pensioners, the poor, and those too weak or sick to work.
Or if you’ve got some buried treasure somewhere, which they say often makes ghosts restless, then tell us about it.
Tonight let’s have plenty to eat.
I hope to God he keeps his promise!
Well, Juliet, I’ll lie with you tonight.
Why the hell did you come in between us?
I’m sorry about what happened, but I’m sure everything will turn out all right.
The duke of York sends your Majesty his respects.
I’d like to get to know you better, Mr. Cobweb.
Today, great duke, she locked me out of my house and feasted there with whores.
Usually fathers produce children, not the other way around.
No.
What worries have kept you awake tonight?
You wronged yourself to write on behalf of such a man.
I don’t even know him.
We You won’t pay for the glasses you smashed?
I’d rather die in a ditch in Egypt, and make it my gentle grave.
Let me ask you a particular question.
You’re shaking with emotion.
This wicked man will be brought face to face with Margaret, who I believe was hired by Don John to take part in this plot.
Did she give up all those chances to marry noblemen, give up her father and country and friends, just to be called a whore?
Which troupe is it?
Musicians, play us a song.—Prince, you look sad.
No.
Dear Duke, please listen to what I have to say.
I’ll write him a taunting letter, and you can deliver it.
Don’t give up yet.
No, he means you’ll use makeup when you’re old.
My Queen and Eros have by their brave examples beaten me to the history books.
And yet, words are a good thing when the man speaking them is pleasant to listen to.
You do their work for them and give them good luck.
Who’s in there?
I hope he’s grown a lot since I last saw him.
But sir, he’s crazy.
My lord, my life is as important to me as yours is to you, and it was never as precious to me as it is now.
Doesn’t a Jew have eyes?
Drown yourself?
Give me your hand.
True, if a fool such as yourself could find it.
I won’t deny you anything!
How beautiful the moonlight’s shining on this bank!
Iago.
I had no reason, no reason.
But do this
I will live in your heart, die in your lap, and be buried in your eyes—and, what’s more, I will go with you to your uncle’s.
But I’m ashamed to kiss, sir.
For Brutus’s sake, I am indebted to you.  
If he backs down, he’ll become as notorious a villain and as saucy a Jack as ever walked on God’s earth, in my opinion.
I won’t be satisfied until I get even with him, wife for wife.
No, he did not.
It’s a subject as worthy of endless discussion as the changing sea.
Please don’t say no.
You should tell Antonio what you hear—but don’t do it suddenly, because it might upset him.
He abandoned his friend here in an emergency, and even pretended he didn’t know him.
Or ask you to leave the room?
I’ve separated them into groups around the island, just as you ordered.
Here comes a messenger.
But listen to me, Gratiano.
But don’t go.
They can’t move till you release them.
You’re an insolent little boy.
That sounds like the voice of Friar John.
I accept with thanks, Enobarbus.
I think she’ll be a better soldier.
I’m not a fighter.
Oh, heavenly mixture!
Let us hear him.
Has he taken care of the music?
So were you.
So they think it’s a good idea for you to watch a play and direct your thoughts toward laughter and merriment—two strong preventive medicines that foster long life.
I could take back my crown by force—What outrageous ingratitude!
What business is it of yours?—Father, be quiet.
Have you forgotten who I am?
And what about that?
Put it together with something else.
I would like to prove to you that I am.
I bet you’re a happy fellow who doesn’t care about anything.
Madam, madam— Antony’s dead!
He’s furious because you insulted him, and he has a right to satisfaction.
The law has another hold on you.
May the evil one take me if I meant it like that!
The crows flying down below look as small as ants.
Is Signior Lucentio at home, sir?
Wait a minute.
And when you want to go to sleep, I’ll be up laughing like a hyena.
Henry the Sixth, crowned king of France and England while still in his infancy, succeeded him.
Have you had lunch yet?
She’ll fall madly in love with the first thing she sees when she wakes up—even if it’s a lion, a bear, a wolf, a bull, a monkey, or an ape.
That’s the way to show me friendship.
Some are born great—”
I’m not drunk.
If luck deserts us today, it’s because we defy it.
He goes forth to war bravely.
What could my sister’s letter to him say?
You’re not being a good friend, Iago, if you even  Please don’t ask me to tell you.
If you aren’t weeping, it’s a good sign that I’ll soon have a new father.
That’s very likely.
I’m ready.  
Lock him in, so he can play the fool in his own home only.
Come, warble for me.
I feel better already, and I know there’s more good advice where that came from.
Pay attention.
Now you have only the memory of what you were, which tortures you when you consider what you’ve become.
Why are you whipping that whore?
A fine ship, with some good people in it, I’m sure, smashed to pieces.
Why are you leading these men through the streets?
Don’t bother us up here.
Friends, go.
What a horrible slut!
He’s coming, madam; but he’s acting very strangely.
Some men don’t like roast pig, others go crazy if they see a cat, and others can’t help urinating when they hear bagpipes.
My food, my fortune, my sweetest hope, my heaven on earth, and my entrance to heaven.
His coffers are too poor to atone for our losses, his entire kingdom too small to account for the amount of blood we’ve shed, and the sight of him kneeling at our feet an empty satisfaction compared to the indignity we have put up with.
Separate them.
Octavius, lead your forces slowly out to the left side of the level field.
Why do you look like that?
What an awful day!
You good-for-nothing, let me in.
What makes you say that?
Yes, with Cassio.
If he’s ready now, so am I.
What does a crocodile look like?
I’ll go to the Antipodes for any little errand you can think of.
What, you ignore my kind advice and try to please the devil I’m warning you about?
But this is bad!
This just may cheer me up.
Thoughts work so quickly that even now you can imagine him on Blackheath, where his lords suggest that he should carry his battle-scarred sword and helmet on a procession through the city.
Antonio, I married a woman as dear to me as life itself.
I must be gone.
He’s subhuman, like an animal.
Calm down, sir, please.
I can’t remember how I cried then, but I’ll cry all over again.
No, it’d be a sin to think such a low thought.
I heard that Apollodorus carried—   What did he carry, please?
Be quick about it.
Are you over your ridiculous mood?
children have lost—or no longer have time to learn—skills that should be a credit to our country.
I’ll reward treason with blows, I promise you.
He who survives this day and lives to see old age shall yearly entertain his neighbors on the eve, saying, “Tomorrow is 
No, my lord.
Get it, sister.
And so do I, my lord.
Bloody, inhuman villain!
We should definitely say something to the Moor.
For heaven’s sake, stop this savage brawl!
You’ve kept away from me for a week?
Isn’t their ingratitude like the mouth biting the hand that feeds it?
He is an animal worthy of Perseus.
Master, you were so focused on the girl herself, I wonder if you missed the main point here.
I feel a lot better after talking to this guy.
Is there anything else I can do for you?
What do you call this?
Can we finish our lunch?
Your mistress’s marks?
Do you want to go hunting, my lord?
I want to be friends with you, and forget all the times you’ve embarrassed and humiliated me.
What a stupid man he’s become!
Just know this before I begin
I’m going inside to think up some way to kill that beautiful devil.
If your love was anything like mine—and I’m sure that no man has loved as I love now—exactly how many ridiculous actions did your fantasizing lead you to?
Could that be a lawyer’s skull?
I think he only loves life because of Bassanio.
If the Turkish fleet isn’t protected in some harbor, their men must all be drowned.
Good to see you, Iago.
Excellent, very good.
Call that servant back.
The king will already have left Southampton.
Even though everything evil wants to look good, good still has to look good too.
But what’s he like?
Why do you keep repeating that, woman?
Even the goddess of patience couldn’t look at this and be patient—it’s too horrifying!
It was the day he overcame the Nervii warriors.
I know his eyes are worshiping some other woman, or why wouldn’t he be here?
Why are you mumbling to yourself instead of answering the order I gave you?
Never contradict him.
Be sure to burn his magic books.
The man who gives away his crust and his crumbs Will discover that he needs some crumbs back.    
Is it possible?
Wake up, wake up, ring a bell and wake up all the snoring citizens.
I didn’t say anything.
Your children caused you trouble in your youth, but mine will bring you comfort in your old age.
Tell me right now and stop fooling
Get it ready immediately.
We’re not going to run in our army, Monsieur Monster.
All right, I’ll stay another month.
Get away from me, you ass!
If you can’t do it, be grateful you’ve lived this long and go wait to die in your cabin, if it comes to that.—Harder, men!—Now get out of our way, I’m telling you.
But she is no virgin.
With all of them at once
God help me, I love you!
It’s out of fashion to give lengthy explanations like that.
Fulvia is dead.
Is it a beggar?
Music feeds the melancholy moods of us lovers.
Well, let’s sit down and listen to Barnardo tell us.
I know the people of Venice well.
Come, come with me, and we’ll do the job quickly.
But the really unbelievable thing is—and this is incredible— As most unbelievable things are.
I will perform this ceremony every year.
Just watch!
The king’s a dear boy with a heart of gold, he’s a lively lad, a wag, born of fine parents, good with his fists.
He’s lying dead in a ditch, with twenty deep gashes in his head, any one of which would have been enough to kill him.
My father’s studying hard, so he won’t see you.
I’d be just as happy if you broke his neck as his finger.
As I slept under this yew-tree here, I had a dream that my master and someone else were fighting and that my master killed him.
What do I see here?
Don’t insult me with your distrust.
Come along with us, Signor Fabian.
But please tell me, who’s his best friend?
I brought you here from Venice.
There’s no clock here in the forest.
Tell my servants not to mention that we were gone.
When should the royal day be?
Sir Thomas Erpingham.
Though science can explain them away, disasters still come after eclipses.
Yes, yes.
What, am I being denied death, as well?
Don’t leave me in the lurch.
But I slip from underneath her and she falls down, crying, “Ow, my butt!” and starts coughing, and then everyone laughs and has fun.
She will be pleased.
I had a son, whom I’ve legally disowned.
They haven’t been commanded to go to the west, mighty king.
Would you rather hear a love song or a song about the good life?
I’ve promised to make everything right.
If you refuse, let an eternal curse fall on you.
Time’s not the one in debt.
No, I’m not wound up.
Go, take it away and let your master make whatever use of it he can.
My belongings are on the ship already.
Really, niece, you’ll never get a husband if you keep saying such harsh things about people.
How did you two get separated?
I want all such offenders to be dealt with that way, and I give precise orders that in our progress through the country there shall be nothing seized from the villages, nothing taken that is not paid for, none of the French harassed or abused in disrespectful language.
What do you think I’ve got on my head?
Look, here comes the duke.
Come on now, wine is good for you, if you know how to use it.
But I’m sorry—I’m not allowed to let you visit them.
Listen, my lords— We’re in a bit of a hurry, Leonato.
If you remember your life before you came here, you may also remember how you got here.
I wish you’d do what I ask!
My dearest relative, I’m begging you, pull yourself together.
Good morning, brother Bedford.
Follow them straight to the cottage.
But you began so rudely.
Tell him I’m sick.
Perform the speech just as I taught you, musically and smoothly.
It was just two days ago that I tripped you and beat you up in front of the king.
Freedom!
I know the burden of hosting him is both an honor and a trouble, but that doesn’t mean it’s not a trouble just the same.
You look pale and wild as if you’re going to hurt yourself.
Let’s embrace 
Good fool, good jester, I’ll make it worth your while if you get me a candle, and a pen, ink and paper.
There!… And over there!… And over there!
Good morning, sweet Hero.
Very pleased to meet you, my lord.
Where is that damned wretch, Tranio, who defied me in such a disgraceful manner?
What?
Oh, what a sad sight!
If you’d like to talk tomorrow, I’ll come to your home.
Just as you got Milan, I’ll get Naples.
Let’s go.
And I’d be surprised if he even did that, for he prefers sports, fun, and friends.
It is not nighttime now.
The sister of my wife, this lady here, is married to your son.
How long will a man lie in his grave before he starts to rot?
Who’s there?
Go to the tomb of your great-grandfather, from whom your own title to the crown derives.
I’ll tear her to pieces!
What’s my name?
I wish you’d never met him.
Is your master awake?
What would you like me to do?
Gold, silver, and common lead.
This haunting business is even stranger than murder.
To work as a servant.
Think about that, and about what followed afterward.
The heart won’t be reasoned with.
I wish there was less social pressure to drink.
I meant to say the Lord Protector.
You don’t know how quickly affection can be killed with a single nasty word.
Oh Scotland, Scotland!
Very true.
I won’t play the fool anymore and just cry while my husband and his man laugh at me.
Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland, I arrest you for high treason.
He’s too overwhelmed with shame.
That way, the maiden that stood between me and them shall be the means of my achieving my desire.
Stop.
You liar, you’re turning my heart to stone, and making me call what I’ll do murder, when I had been thinking of it as a sacrifice!
I’ll catch it before it falls to the ground.
My lord, welcome this man.
Revise your statement, or you may damage your inheritance.
But it doesn’t matter.
I thank my heart—the poor fool—for it keeps away from seriousness.
I know it’s the moon.
I wish you had told me you had a different father.
Well, it must have been Signior Benedick.
So young and so cruel?
Knock, knock, knock!
He has distinguished himself as a great soldier in his own right, deserving more than any honor your can bestow on him.
Sport?
Now, good-bye.
See the wound that Casca made.
The criminal is the one who stole the nest.
I didn’t.
If you say that, you’ll only be telling the truth.
Farewell.
My life has run its circle.
After you, my lords?
Are you educated?
Are you?
You.
But I could see that Cupid’s fiery arrow was put out by watery, virginal moonbeams, so the royal virgin continued her virginal thoughts without being interrupted by thoughts of love.
How I wish you felt better!
I drink to you.
God Almighty, there must be some essential goodness even in evil, if men would only look for it.
The carriages, sir, are the hangers—where the swords hang.
Well, you know, “some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.” Anyway, I was part of the trick, sir.
We are all made of dreams, and our life stretches from sleep before birth to sleep after death.
It’s good we’re doing this.
Come on, sister.
I can read.
Don’t be shy—shake hands with me.
I wish I had two fool’s caps and two daughters.
Soldier, you are.
May the good Lord keep me safe from all women like her!
The earth sings when he touches it.
He brings me freedom.
I’d rather have a jester to make me happy than experience to make me sad—and to travel for all that trouble, no less!
I’ll bleed to death.
And welcome, welcome!
The taming school?
Here comes better news.
As a friend or an enemy?
If she’s a traitor, why then, so am I.
Friends of this country.
Is it them?
Don’t say that—unless you want to be one of my friends.
Callow youth, you don’t yet know how to love!
Allow me to continue.—I am a gentleman of Verona, sir, who, hearing of your daughter’s beauty and wit, her friendly disposition and bashful modesty, her uncommon virtues and her mild behavior, have taken the liberty of presenting myself as a guest at your house in the hope of seeing for myself if what I’ve heard is true.
We age and die because they wear us out.
If I agree to this, we may leave unharmed, with our shields undented.
Will she go to bed now?
You will be whipped.  
If only my prayers could inspire that kind of affection!
I’ve only been hurt, not killed.
The Count sent me an excellent pair of perfumed gloves.
Boy, your words can’t excuse the harm you’ve done to me.
Oh cousin, cousin!
Don’t you suspect my office?
I can tell that something wicked is coming by the tingling in my thumbs.
You’re a fool.
But those political considerations might last such a long time that the general will forget my love and service, especially if I’m gone and someone else has my job.
I’ll give you enough gold to pay back your debt twenty times over.
What is it?
If you’re Launcelot, then you’re my own flesh and blood.
Some good friend of his must have died, because nothing else in the world could change a man so much.
And now they’re both gone.
Who’s that?
But you’ll see that the very thing that joins them will be the thing that separates them.
What’s going on here, you secret, evil, midnight hags?
But if you remember, I didn’t tell you to parody the style.
Honestly, she is too ill-tempered.
I can’t talk now.
Oh, listen to me, night— Who is this?
Say that it’s my fear that keeps you inside and not your own.
Let’s do it with no show of anxiety—no, with no more fear than if we’d heard that the English were busying themselves with folk dancing.
Let me at her!.
Ambition shouldn’t be so soft.
What then, sick?
Here, take my sword.
He’s walking ahead of me, and he keeps daring me to follow him.
I’m a nobleman, and I know what I’m doing in assigning this job to you.
What do you mean by “carriages”?
You’re helping the storm, not us.
Where would Othello go?—Oh, look at you!
What, are you sleepy?
It’s an outstanding army and highly motivated.
That’s where I’m going now, so I’ll leave you here.
Yes, the second time around, since, as they say, old people become children again.
Doesn’t that sound like true love?
Most kind messenger, tell great Caesar that through his deputy I kiss his conquering hand.
My lord, he asks that you please visit him tomorrow or the next day.
Oh, with his sordid desertion, he sets the example for our own.
Boy!
I’m afraid we’re intruding too boldly on your sleep time.
James Tyrrel—and your most obedient subject.
Is it possible?
Speak, man.
Just looking at him gives me heartburn.
Make room!
But if
Yes, my lord.
Yes, yes, my lord.
The man who tells a lie and swears by it is now considered as brave as Hercules.
Stay away for now, and good night, my sweet friend.
Good morning, worthy Caesar.
I don’t wish that on you.
And they’ve been plotting things together.
Well, let’s hope your good fortune continues!
Juno and Ceres are whispering about something serious.
If they’ll do neither, we’ll come to them and make them fly like stones shot from powerful slings.
I’ll find your servant, and he’ll update you now and then on your case as it stands here.
Why are we talking about him like this?
Then how will we see their own natural tears?
No one else would.
Oh love!
He said my eyes and my hair were black and, now that I think of it, he scorned me.
Go then, goodbye.
Women are lucky, then.
Signior Benedick served well in the war, my lady.
It wouldn’t be right for me to tell you everything I’ve seen and heard.
Caesar’s knave will bring him a message for us.
I’ll have you two hide—and the fool too—right where he’ll find the letter.
Get him to say his prayers, Sir Toby, get him to pray.
Didn’t I tell you to meet me outside and bring these morons with you?
And then?
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
Please lie down and rest a while, my lord.
Go ahead, then.
Fulvia?
Hello, do you have any news?
God keep me so.—Heralds, go with him.
Officers, take them away.
Have more than you show, Speak less than you know, Lend less than you owe.
But you don’t have any of the symptoms my uncle told me about.
Kind and dear princess!
The bitter one is the other one—that’s you.LEAR Are you calling me a fool, boy?
Hamlet, you’re dead.
Yes, like that.
Then by all means never let her walk in public.
What can you see out on the ocean?
Please, sir, be quiet.
I have done wrong, so I will suffer wrong.
By God, I will tell the king about these taunts.
Lock the doors.
I have to do it, I have to do it.
My dear Gloucester!
Brutus speaks.
Who heard me do that?
Oh, most bloody sight!
Don’t give it away.
Virginity makes her look sick and green.
Oh, look!
It’s true I heard a humming sound, a strange one, which woke me up.
He loves to hear me tell him how men can be snared by flatterers, just like unicorns can be captured in trees, elephants in holes, and lions with nets.
My brother didn’t use my name to justify his rebellion.
I’m Lorenzo, your love.
Why, so did you.
Can you feel your legs?
I won’t speak to her.
I’m not afraid of anyone but him.
They’re all welcome.
All right, I’ll stop.
And I too?
But here’s an old, true saying
Faint, fall down—if you don’t, then you’re lying about my eyes being murderers.
You’re going to make me jealous, Launcelot, if you keep taking my wife into dark corners like this!
Between whom?
Go ahead and write it down.
Now I want her more than ever.
Your mistress sent for me to come to dinner?
Huh!
Like that.  
Ever since I’ve been a free agent in my choice of friends, I’ve chosen you because you take everything life hands you with calm acceptance, grateful for both good and bad.
It’s disgraceful!
Why not stay and hear me talk to him?
His daughters want to kill him.
This is Trebonius.
My father—I think I see my father.
Let’s fall on our swords.
This is the air, that’s the glorious sun.
For the favor of sleeping in her bed.
Here are the keys, and there is the duke, sleeping.
Well, even if he is her father, I’m sure she wouldn’t want to have the head of the old man on her shoulders!
If only all struggles ended this well.
Usually that means a person is foolish.
That really is an illegitimate hope.
And what is that music?
You’ll just have to be patient for a little while.
Come out.
Please let me go.
A simple country farmer who brought her figs.
You sound like a pack of wolves howling at the moon.
Oh, conspiracy, are you ashamed to show your face even at night, when evil things are most free?
I think I’ve found one already, thanks to you, my lord.
What do you say?
My lord?
My lord?
But you can’t blame me for her offenses.
How are things now?
Farewell.
Ha!
Caesar, you’re not going to be killed by a traitor—unless you kill yourself..
She said something she shouldn’t have said, I’m sure of that.
If not, it’s true, this parting was well done.
No, you have to call me Rosalind.—Sister, you’re coming?
Come on and kiss me, Kate.
A very candid reply.
I swear to you by Rosalind’s own pretty hand that I am that unfortunate man.
I served Mark Antony, who was the commander most worthy of my services.
This will either make us or break us.
It’s nice you’re offering to sacrifice her behind her back.
Can he deny it?
He is the prince of horses.
Those who have known how bad things are here on earth.
You blush bright red as soon as you hear any news.
My lord, what’s wrong with you?
Now, tailor, let’s see what you’ve got.
How dare you serve it to me this way!
The king has heard them, but as yet has made no answer.
He was wrong to do that.
Yes, I do.
And you can’t put your heads together and figure out why he’s acting so dazed and confused, ruining his peace and quiet with such dangerous displays of lunacy?
That’s the right answer—it shows your love.
Did you notice?
Yes,” said my husband, “Did you fall on your face?
There’s only one hope for you, and even that’s a kind of illegitimate hope.
Knock.
Now, Balthazar, you’ve always been honest and faithful to me, and I trust you still are. 
On that point, our letters don’t agree.
Excellent in fencing, I mean, sir.
Go ahead, but I won’t listen.
But I’m running ahead of myself.
If it’s fighting he is after, some of us here should run and hide.
Oh, ho!
Here.
He has one ship bound for Tripoli, another heading for the Indies.
That her father’s brother wants to be her husband?
I like you very much.
Go lodge a complaint about this with the duke.
How are you feeling, Malvolio?
Get out of my sight!—Dear Cesario, please don’t be offended.—Get out of here, you barbarian!
Oh, stop, fool.
It’s yours.
You’re making such a fuss.
What if this mixture doesn’t work at all?
Be calm, dear lady.
You stupid cop, stop your violence!
Be content.
What are you thinking about so seriously?
Strategy makes a better soldier than haste.
Give them hefty meals of beef and iron and steel, and they will eat like wolves and fight like devils.
Wait!
Yes, that’s the one.
You’re coming here yourself to see the dreaded act you had tried to stop.
The Roman people are fed up with his arrogance already.
For instance, our husbands
My mask is like the roof of the poor 
What gentleman?
Tell him we could have driven him back at Harfleur but thought it unwise to burst a pustule before it had fully ripened.
We’re safe from my father for at least three hours.
Cambio is transformed into Lucentio.
Just say it.
Could you really do such a thing, for all the world?
I don’t want to dance.
The cure for confusion is not yelling and screaming.
I’ll die  You’re of royal blood, and we obey you.
I did.
Damn it!
He’s alive and victorious, and Mercutio’s dead?
I cannot speak your England.
The cold wind blows through the hawthorn trees.
My husband is dead.
I’ll get myself a fur-trimmed suit.
Prove you are worthy of your birth, which I do not doubt for a moment.
Indeed, my lord, he is a perfectly wonderful horse.
I loved this man so much it makes me weep.
So use your discretion.
Thank you.
But whatever misfortunes occur, they can’t ruin the joy I feel with one look at her.
Now he’ll sit under a  Let’s go.
Oh, traitors, villains!
I’ve had news that my Nell died of the pox in a hospice.
The night has been chaotic.
Where have you been, sister?
But please tell me, can you read anything you see?
break out, civil war erupts, kings are betrayed, and the bond between father and son snaps.
You have the sacred power to cure both of us.
Let’s go back to court together, but 
Lead’s too crass to hold her.
A good plan, warrior king.
Where are you going?
But tell me—which of my good qualities first made you suffer love for me?
Didn’t you tell me that I’d be able to recognize the man by the Athenian clothes he was wearing?
Maybe I should ask you what right you have to take me, but I’ll take you, Orlando, to be my husband.
Everything may still be all right.
Did Diana ever beautify a grove as much as Kate beautifies this room with her queenly movements?
I remember him well, and my memory tells me that he deserves your praise.
Let go of him, peasant, or you die!
Are you going to write Antony about this?
Relax, gentlemen.
I’m not interested in being good.    
Good night.
Yes, my good lord.
He is fortifying his castle at Dunsinane with heavy defenses.
I’ll go on with my speech praising you, and then I’ll get to the point.
No, he loves and cherishes me.
Yes, yes, and let’s sing in unison, like two gypsies riding on a single horse.                
Will it be tonight at supper?
Give me your hand, first. 
Ugh!
They’re well too.
She is in a better place.
Your name is Lucentio, you say.
Indeed, it’s a strange time.
Is her voice pitched high or low?
If not, goodbye.
I’ll give you a greater gift than that, nephew.
Well, if a moist palm isn’t a clear sign of promiscuity, then I can’t scratch my own ear.
If you do that, I’ll never respect you again.
I leave a slimy bastard with you, your Worship, for you to punish and make an example of.
Where’s the Master?
Would you like to taste the banquet?
I wouldn’t have missed this even for a pension of thousands of pounds, to be paid by the shah of Persia.
Hear everyone’s opinion, but reserve your judgment.
Please get him, my friend, I beg you.
I’ve never known any woman or seen a woman’s face—except my own in the mirror.
Well, then it isn’t one to you, since nothing is really good or bad in itself—it’s all what a person thinks about it.
I sent the Nurse at nine o'clock.
Damn you for teaching me your language!
So the lion disappeared.
Please, somebody, get us out of here!
If that’s what you say, go fight a duel with me and prove it.
Tell me who shall have the better luck, Caesar or me?
You’re right, Lysander’s admirable too.
Well, first of all, my horse is tired and my master and mistress have had a falling out.
Not long ago you challenged and opposed your brother, and it is only very recently that he has forgiven you.
What foolish thief brags about his crimes?
Which one of them did it?
Now, most noble Brutus, the gods are friendly with us today so that we, who want peace, can live on to old age!
What do you mean I faked you out?
We have two hours to get ready.
What kind of help do you need?
Do whatever you want with it.
And after that he came back here looking so serious?
Now, if courtiers were shepherds, that kind of courtesy would be unclean.
She’s sending this ring back to you, sir.
I ask you, if you’ve kept this a secret, keep doing so.
Oh, no.
To Dover.
For God’s sake, would someone bring me a mug of beer!
What’s this all about?
Good Enobarbus!
Let’s proceed on our march to Birnam.
But is he often like this?
You’re wrong, you madman.
My father loved Sir Rowland as much as he loved his own soul, and the rest of the world shared my father’s opinion.
Let’s be disciplined and not delay, because tomorrow is a busy day.
Which one of you is the lady of the house?
I am the son of Marcus Cato!
I’ll recognize him all right, I’m sure of it.
Where are my slippers?
His wildness is a threat to all of us—to you, to me, to everyone.
He had a thousand noses and twisted horns, like wave crests in a storm at sea.
I must leave them and seek some better employment.
Who’s blocking the way?
They are harder than the stones the house is made of.
And, Kate, when France is mine and I am yours, then France is yours and you are mine.
My uncle?
Unfortunately, I love myself.
It’s your presence that draws out this blood from his empty veins.
Do you work in this house?
I’ve never been more useful to you than I will be now.
Who’s that coming over here?
Take it away.
Rulers abuse their power when they separate it from compassion.
Half of your wealth goes to Antonio.
Here, Peter Quince.
I pray that God ends his life before I die, so I can say, “The dog is dead!”
But they’re siding with a better wrestler than myself.
Let’s move.
He plans to leave tomorrow.
Now I’ll believe that unicorns exist, and that there’s a tree in Arabia where the phoenix lives.
There’s music coming out of thin air.
Come here, you wretch!
Whenever a king sighs, everyone groans.
Please put up with my weakness.
When you have to steal your own wives some day, I’ll wait for you just as long.
The duke of Exeter has held the bridge very gallantly.
Take care of the queen!
Titinius, if you love me, get on your horse and spur him on until he’s brought you to those troops and back again, so that I can find out whether those troops are friends or enemies.
That’s the curse of military service.
Yes, we are.
If he won’t stop when he’s told to, then he isn’t one of the Prince’s subjects.
I’ve locked it up in my room.
It’s good to grow.
Who are you, coming so fast in this quiet night?
Oh, that’s nothing, believe me, sir.
Climb up to her bedroom and comfort her.
Leaving you is a thousand times worse than being near you.
Poor Tom has been scared out of his mind.
Husband, I’ll eat with you in private today and hear your confession about all the pranks you’ve pulled.
If she’d been faithful to me, I never would have given her up, not even if God himself offered me a jewel as big as a planet in exchange for her.
Come here, monster, put some glue on your fingers, and carry away the rest of these clothes for us.
We’ve driven him all the way back to his camp.
If I could win a lady by playing leapfrog or vaulting into my saddle with my armor on my back—though you may accuse me of boasting—I could easily get myself a wife.
He didn’t say anything, he’s reading.
The thing is definitely going to be sold.
Calphurnia cried out three times in her sleep, “Help, someone!
My dear madam, why are you in mourning?
But could beauty be related to anything better than goodness?
Thank you, sir.
God forbid!
You can heat your iron up in here.
Please stand up!
You don’t?
Give me the vial.
If I weren’t a merciful man, I’d forget about your missing brother and punish you in his place.
Well, learn to make jokes at the appropriate time.
It’s true!
Please rise, Queen.
Doesn’t everyone want a wife like that?
Cruel, cruel Death killed her.
My daughter married death.
Nearest his heart.”—Those are the very words.
But still, my uncle-father and aunt-mother have got the wrong idea.
I took their stings too, wouldn’t you say?
Play your flutes!
Sister, you know he promised to give me a necklace.
Good to see you, Corporal Nym.
For her I’ll be strange and condescending, and I’ll put on my yellow stockings and crisscross laces right away.
I did—and now I’ve got it!
But I’ll go in.
What’s her skin like?
Are you blushing?
Amen, amen.
Fool, I’ll repay you for this favor.
Here, my lord.
They still haven’t joined the battle.
I’ll drink to Hamlet’s health, and into his goblet I’ll drop a pearl even more costly than those in the crowns of the last four Danish kings.
Yawn, snore.
Don’t push him too far.
You could’ve done this without your beard and gown.
What is this blood that stains the stony entrance of this tomb?
They show their bloody heralds of battle, and something must be done immediately.
Or was it just your whim, on your own initiative?
The advancement of your children, noble lady.
Come on, tell me in broken music—for your voice is music and your English broken.
If you refuse to allow me to do so, your city’s charter and its freedom are endangered.
If you put me in the stocks you’ll insult him both as a king and as a man.
Come with us to Athens.
The Lord Grandpré.
His letter’s going to be hilarious.
No, ma'am.
Oh, now I really need that priest who spoke to me today!
God defend and guard us innocents against them!
They can sit out there until they die of hunger and disease.
He once said the devil would get him because of women.
And yet I wouldn’t want to be you, uncle.
I hope you are pleased with the snake.
No, that’s not it—it’s because of what happens in the marriage bed.
The only possibility is that you’ve murdered him.
Well, well, you have a careful father, child.
Take it back.
Oh, I wish we could unmask scoundrels like that, and give a whip to every good man to beat them senseless with!
Or, rather, I’ll kill you, or I’ll do away with you, or I’ll turn your life into death and your freedom into captivity.
Come here, Proculeius.
This way, my lord.
Did he marry me just to starve me?
Don’t swear at all.
He wasn’t sad, because he knows that his disposition affects others.
Goodbye, cousin.
The cowslip flowers are her bodyguards.
Come here, captain.
Well, take him on up and we’ll try to pull it off.
The dog returns to its own vomit, and the newly washed sow to its mud puddle.” You’d take anything for a mistress.
Yes, yes, Curtis, so hurry up and start the fire.
You’re lucky, my lord, to be able to see the peace and sweetness even in what bad luck has brought you.
Alexander, God knows and you know, in his rages and his furies and his wraths and his angers and his moods and his displeasures and his indignations, and also being a little the worse for drink, killed his best friend Cleitus in a drunken rage, see.
Now, Roderigo, where did you see her?—Oh, that miserable wretch!—You say you saw her with the Moor?—Oh, who would want to be a father?—How did you know it was her?—To think she tricked me so easily!—What did she say to you?—Get me more candles, and wake up all my relatives.
The person who suffers alone suffers the most.
Look, sir.
Brutus, my country’s friend.
I think he told me Paris was about to marry Juliet.
If any legs here are Trinculo’s, these are. 
Goodbye to you both.
My worthy Cawdor!
I’ll never see the likes of him again.
And the boys are winning so far?
I’m not interested in anything a eunuch can do.
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus is an honorable man.
Are you going to provoke me?
I have no doubt that it will be a swift and successful war, since God so graciously exposed this dangerous plot.
I’m an honest Puck, and I swear that if we’re lucky enough not to get hissed at, we’ll make it up to you soon.
It’s a good thing for you that, being castrated, you can better concentrate on my needs.
Hey, bride!
I don’t feel guilty about them at all.
Then pack up your instruments and go away.
Let thunder rumble!
Let’s go!
Just looking at you makes me sick.
Please lock the door and keep quiet.
Let him thank me, who helped him get there.
Good Mr. Mustardseed, I know you very well.
That banishment is worse than the murder of ten thousand Tybalts.
Why, what is there to do before I get there?
If I see anything tonight that convinces me not to marry her, I’ll shame her tomorrow in the very congregation where I would have married her.
That’s true, it’s your beauty’s fault.
I’m reluctant to tell you what I wish you knew.
Tell me, who is this knight?
Bless your five senses!
The king was wearing exactly this armor when he fought the king of Norway.
I suspect some foul play.
Oh, he’s crazy, Laertes!
Yes, you did, sir.
What support did I have other than Edward?
Indeed you did, and more besides, Miranda.
Ding, dong, bell.
Her body sleeps in the Capulet tomb, and her immortal soul lives with the angels in heaven.
How dangerous to have this madman on the loose!
You’re a natural-born philosopher!
Life’s better at 
Don’t try to find out more.
Among them are one hundred twenty-six princes and standard-bearing nobles.
Both fencers are bleeding—how do you feel, my lord?
I’ll bet my life that he only wrote this letter to gauge my love for you, and for no other reason.
Remember who liked your yellow stockings—” Your yellow stockings?
If she is silent and won’t speak at all, I’ll praise her chattiness and say she speaks with piercing eloquence.
I shall, King Harry.
Yes, she will.
We must remember the gravity of this sad day.
Just read it.
Everything’s fine, now, sweetheart.
Oh, you devil, you devil!
Find out where the Jew’s house is.
I am their mother.
I’ll hide in the arbor.
You’re not going anywhere.
Help!
Take your penalty.
Did you see him?
Oh, oh, Edmund, I don’t like this monstrous business.
Are you satisfied, Jew?
He’s in his chambers now, and he’s extremely upset.
My master will be here in the morning.
Tell me what I want to know.
Or should I describe you as the one who killed her brothers and her uncles?
Get out of my sight!
What are you accused of?
The name of Cassius gives credit to these corrupt actions, and so they go unpunished.
Did you see that?
It’s not okay!
How are you, my ladies?
If my eyes don’t deceive me, you are my Rosalind.
Has Fortune turned on me, like the whore she is?
My lord, what I say may be a little confused, since I’m half asleep and half awake.
Don’t think I’m in love with him just because I’m asking about him.
I weep for Caesar in that he was good to me.
Have mercy, Jesus!—Wait, I was only dreaming.
In the meantime I wrote to Romeo and told him to come here on this awful night to help remove her from her temporary grave when the sleeping potion wore off.
Give me some trinket of yours, and I will wear it in my hat.
My worthy lord, your noble friends miss your company.
Reborn.
Come, Dromio, let’s go.
No, sir, not at all.
So you want to put a man in your belly.
I couldn’t bear to obey all of your daughters' harsh orders.
I’m serving under him to take advantage of him.
Thank you, sir.
Not true.
He’s not himself because he feels so ashamed.
I even knew the tailor who made the disguise she wore when she ran off.
We’re talking here in a public place.
I don’t care what he told you in Latin.
No, if I had power I would take world peace and throw it down to hell.
Because I’m a Jew.
Go get money.
Do you think it’s a good idea to rush?
Goodbye.
We’ve seen the best our age has to offer.
And I love Hastings with all my heart.
Why, so did you.
You’re famous for it.
There isn’t a single drop of sincerity in him that could be touched with love.
I remember his face well.
Look out, I’m on my way up.
They only like things as bad as themselves.
Things have turned out so unluckily, sir, that we haven’t had time to convince our daughter to marry you.
They’re speaking to him.
There’s still a bit of daylight in the sky.
Ah, poor ghost!
It will likely be a bloody fight.
Her reputation was as pure as the snow, but now it’s as dirty and black as my own face.
I’m not that stupid.
You must understand, Silius, that it’s better to leave something undone than achieve too much fame in your superior’s absence.
Oh, Corin, I wish you could understand how much I love her!
Did you say all?
From now on I’ll put up with my anguish until the anguish itself cries out, “Enough, enough!” and disappears.
Who’s going to keep me from them?
Some startling news has just arrived, sir.
It was tossed into the window of my room.
I’ve been here too long.
Cassius, don’t take it badly.
I’m here, my lord.
Yes, sir, I’m here.
Goblin, lead them up and down.
That’s all he asks for himself.
In a fit of rage she locked you up in a hollow pine tree, with the help of her powerful assistants, and left you there for twelve years.
Whether you are sad or merry, the intensity of either suits you like no one else . . .
She took that ring from me.
Let him think about his own debt.
I’m surprised I didn’t bite back.
Come here, herald.—Let the trumpet sound!—Read this out.
Hurry up, or I’ll smack you on the ears with my sword before you have yours drawn.
Where are you going?
Now he denies it a bit, and tries to laugh it off.
With all my heart, I’ll join you.
He might have treated me like that, because I’m as unused to abuse as a little child.
He locks himself up alone in his bedroom, shuts his windows to keep out the beautiful daylight, and makes himself an artificial night.
Your beautiful eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine with love.
Good to see you, Signior Hortensio.
Hurry up, my Jewish friend.
Thank you for his present and your trouble.
Who’s coming here?
Everything that made me worry about my ships would make me sad.
That’s not holy, it’s heresy.
I beg the court to deliver the verdict.
I won’t be a soldier anymore.
If I told you I understood Greek, I’d be lying.
Oh, Tranio, until it happened to me, I never would have thought it possible.
Look, she’s spotted him with those sweet eyes of hers.
Go ahead.
Oh, sun, I will never see another one of your sunrises.
The king performs more wonders than seem humanly possible, challenging every enemy he sees.
I’m ready to suffer peacefully whatever he does to me in his cruelty and anger.
I swear on my soul it was a lie.
Why, isn’t all this joking better than groaning about love?
What’s the matter with you, madam?
We must form a better opinion of ourselves if our uprising can pull the insatiable Antony’s attention away from that Egyptian widow. 
You rudely snuck out of bed.
If it’s true that you don’t need 
Sir, the laws of Ephesus will be on my side, and you’ll be embarrassed.
Travelers have never told lies, no matter what the fools at home accuse them of.
Saints don’t move, even when they grant prayers.
Goodbye to my happiness!
Listen to Antony.
Priest.
Now I must return to the wedding.
Regan gives good advice.
So it’s no surprise that Demetrius runs away from me as if I were a monster.
And her sister’s dead too, poisoned by your wife.
But aren’t you drowned, Stephano?
No, a woman’s gentle brain could never have come up with such crude expressions and even harsher meanings.
The only thing I could do with her is to use all that oil as fuel in a lamp and then use that light to run away by.
O Phoebe, Phoebe, Phoebe!
We know each other’s faces, but as for our thoughts, he doesn’t know any more about my thinking than I do about yours or his—or you do about mine.
You come with me, uncle of Exeter.
If God will be revenged for this deed, he will do it publicly.
Please, don’t take it badly, but I cannot and will not give in to you.
But if I really laid him bare, I’d have to weep and hang my head, and you would not believe me, his behavior is so shocking.
Let’s get dressed quickly and then meet in the hall.
I did.
What’s the matter, lady?
I wish you all the best.
And 
I often wander around in the woods like a forest ranger until the sun rises in the fiery red sky over the ocean, turning the salty green water to gold.
Hey, Nurse!
Why?
My stupid heart, which I’m leaving behind here.
She was previously Caius Marcellus’ wife.
That’s very sensible, but you missed my sense
No, I won’t take a husband until they make men out of something other than dirt.
I believe you, and I ask you to forgive me.
Run, run, oh, run!
Our forces are ready for them.
How dare you try to be my friend when you refuse to fight my enemy.
Let us prepare for our wedding.—On that day, I’ll take your oath of loyalty, my Lord of Burgundy and all my peers, to guarantee my treaty.
It’s nobler to leap in ourselves than dawdle until they push us.
So do you take her or leave her?
I’m very sensitive, and even the smallest bit of rudeness hurts my feelings.
I will.
Oh Stephano, do you have any more of that wine?
Go ahead, you fool.
Here comes your father.
Can you tell me?
Macbeth!
Now is the time when we need your help.
I’m reminding your grace what you promised me.
Caliban, who now serves me.
Darling Kate!
For you, I give myself away and I’m ecstatic about the exchange.
What’s going on, Dromio?
Really, Audrey, I wish you were more poetical.
Why “puppet”?—Oh, I see where this is going.
Since you’re giving me new assignments, let me remind you what you promised me but haven’t come through with yet.
Every person I meet greets me like an old friend, and every one of them knows my name.
Follow him, friends.
He deserves it, even if it were covered with jewels like holy 
I will have when you hear the rest of what I have to say.
I’ll be your wife if you’ll have me.
What’s the bet?
I was not angry since I came to France until this instant.
It would be excellent if they could make a man halfway between Don John and Benedick.
Oh ho, oh ho!
The wide ocean doesn’t prevent them from coming to see her—they travel across it as if it were a little stream.
Are any ships leaving tonight?
He is.
Stephano!
It’s too frightened to look at itself.
Benedick and Beatrice have been waging a war of wits between themselves.
Yes, right away.
Come, come.
The lieutenant has to get to heaven before the ensign.
If it’s work for a man, I’ll do it.  
Kings have trembled to kiss this hand.
I’m at your service until death.
Is Othello angry?
You are welcome here, my friends.
You are lesser than Macbeth but also greater.
I sincerely hope it does you good, mangy rascal.
Your attendant asses are getting the horses ready.
Jacob didn’t have any control over what happened.
Take away this fool, gentlemen.
I’ll tell them where you come from, though I don’t know who you are or what you want.
Yes, and you dared Caesar to fight the battle at Pharsalia, where he fought against Pompey.
Look, here he comes.
Will it?
Father is on the lookout.
The only reason you left India was to come here and see that butch Amazon Hippolyta.
There’s nothing of the weak woman left in me.
Don’t damn yourself.
Oh, I’ll beat him up for that!
Write them together—yours is just as good a name.
Please, Signior Gremio.
Caesar’s talking.
A man no mightier than you or I in ability, yet grown as huge and frightening as tonight’s strange happenings.
I’ve been alive for twenty-eight years, and I’ve never met a man who knew what was good for him.
You smiled with a strength you must have gotten from heaven, while I cried salty tears into the salty sea, and groaned at our situation.
Unless my horse goes faster than expected, I will be back an hour or two after sunset.
I’ll fight every one of these devils if I have to, one at a time.
It would be wonderfully wise of you, my dear Reynaldo, to ask around about his behavior a little before you visit him.
Now that’s patience!
From our brother monarch, the king of England?
Mine, neither.
Oh, it’s dreadful, dreadful, Iago!
Give me my veil.
Let him run far away.
But mock me gently, dear Kate, because I love you terribly.
How handsome it is.
I assure you it is, madam.
Where could I have lost that handkerchief, Emilia?
Romans, countrymen, and friends!
Whenever they meet, there’s a little battle.
I’m sure you have your hands full preparing for the sudden festivities.
But no matter—I’ll get back at him soon enough.
The crowd that follows Caesar at his heels—senators, justices, common petitioners—will suffocate a feeble man almost to death.
Bring her out, brother.
I hope that, after I tell you my news, you will think better of me.
The armies have merely changed places, Titinius, because Octavius has been overthrown by noble Brutus’s forces at the very moment that Antony overthrew Cassius’s legions.
Ah, I’m an odd kind of guy.
But I bet Fortinbras will win the election to the Danish crown.
You will be the king.
Do you know where I’m going?
Three proper young men, all good looking and with great presence—
I folded up the new document, signed it, sealed it, and put it safely back so that no one noticed any difference.
Goodbye.
But please tell me more.
No, madam, I’m just reading an insane letter.
Where’s Monsieur Mustardseed?
On top of her?
Whose tongue?
Did you mention that Edward’s children are bastards?
He loves them both.
Then we’ll see that tomorrow night.
Who are they following?
So get ready to leave.
Go to the church
Caesar!
Don’t tone things down or exaggerate them out of hostility.
Yes, him, woman.
I recently shared a bed with Cassio, and I couldn’t sleep because of a raging toothache.
I am the greatest, but I was able to do the least.
So what’s going on?
Go to Francis Seacole, the constable of the watch.
I wouldn’t want to stay here and make you angry.
What, from myself?
It means being faithful and ready to serve, just like I am for Phoebe.
That’s a good point.
That’s for sure.
That’s just what I thought.
Either there are wars in heaven, or else the world, too insolent toward the gods, provokes them to send destruction.
Even if you were as handsome as  I beg your highness’ pardon.
What a farce!
What on earth does that mean?
Malcolm and Donalbain, the king’s two sons, have run away and fled, which makes them the prime suspects.
Oh, sir, impetuous people learn their lessons from the consequences of their foolish actions.
Please, give it to me. 
I wish I could sleep too—it would stop me from thinking.
There’s no masquerade tonight.
I don’t think he wants to be anywhere but where he is.
And that’s why he went crazy.
I’m afraid it will  I’d love it.
What can I do for you?
Oh, you bloody prison, fatal and threatening to noble lords!
Am I to be dictated to, like a child?
Be quiet and depart.
A crazy bastard.
But as a gentleman and a soldier he’s promised me he won’t hurt you.
Now be quiet.
This story breaks my heart.
Don’t listen to the bell, Duncan, because it summons you either to heaven or to hell.
Keep listening.
Play me some music.
He’s married to Octavia, madam.
What’s the news, brave soldier?
What are you doing?
If I could say hello to the fifth one as happily as I’ll say goodbye to the first four, I’d be very happy he’s coming.
Buckingham, I need to have a word with you.
I wouldn’t either, by daylight.
Nice Grumio, bring me some.
I think all tendencies to jealousy were burned out of him by the sun of his native land.
It’s not safe to be straightforward and honest.
Either go someplace private, or talk it over rationally, or else just go away.
Tell me.
The hand of death has taken him.
You sent me to the port to find a ship.
Oh, he’s a lovely gentleman!
And as you know, his connections, if he put them to good use, might be enough to hurt us all.
That word “judgment” makes me feel a bit guilty.
Who’s ruining my rituals of true love?
Wait!
What wicked magician has conjured up this devil to interrupt this sacred burial rite?
But his kindness was nobler than even his desire for revenge, his natural goodness was stronger than his need to give his brother what he deserved.
I know you’d never skip school.
Make it a word and a blow.
This villain is much quicker than I am.
First kiss me, Kate, and then we will.
Judge for yourself.
On my honor and by my word, if you outstay the ten days, you will die.
Here.
I can’t love him.
We’ll be there.
So, are you done?
You were wrong to give away your wife’s first gift so thoughtlessly, a thing you swore to keep on your finger and bound faithfully to your body.
I’ll keep your words of wisdom close to my heart.
Gentlemen, let go of him.
I love you all the more for not liking it.
So be cheerful.
My legs may be yellow, but I don’t feel blue.
You’re talking like some innocent girl who doesn’t understand the ways of the world.
Murder and treason!
Where was she born?
Oh, she’s so witty and creative!
You’re right.
Except that he has not yet agreed to address you in this form and with this title—in French,  And even this I’m willing to grant if you request it.
Swallows have built nests in Cleopatra’s sails.
Now, my lord, what are we going to do if we find that Lord Hastings won’t go along with our plans?
How nice of you!
I was.
All of them?
Show her in.  
Oh, you’re so lucky!
You’d better shut up!
Come, Kate, let’s go to bed.
So hurry up, because we have twenty miles to cover today.
The same thing.
I hope God makes you happy again, like you once were.
In the meantime, I’ll raise an army that will surpass his.
Call him!
I thank your Highness.
Good, very good.
Who greets me so early in the morning?
A drum, a drum!
I saw him once.
I have to eat my dinner now.
Stay invisible.
Well, we’ll stop, then.
He’s not jealous?
Now I am sure that eyes can’t hurt a person.
My Lord of Warwick, a most corrupt treason—God be praised for it!—has been discovered, as plain as any you’d hope to see on a summer’s day.
Yes, my lord, if you give us permission.
What’s the matter?
Take credit, God, for it is no one’s doing but yours.
Indeed, the enemy nearly took the bridge, but he was forced to retreat, and the duke of Exeter holds the bridge.
Look, if you love me, stay.
Madam, if I do as well as I think I’m going to do in these dangerous, violent wars, you and your relatives will have more good at my hands than you’ve ever had bad!
Don’t play any nasty tricks on me.
You all saw that on the Lupercal feast day I offered him a king’s crown three times, and he refused it three times.
Give me that letter, sir.
Why should I be afraid of your judgment when I haven’t done anything wrong?
Don’t tell me that.
It’s a bad time for such an injury.
I myself am the King of Naples, since I saw with my own eyes—these eyes that haven’t been dry since—my father killed in a shipwreck.
He’s asking him to tell the story again.
Good lady, don’t be angry with the child.
Here’s a goat for you.
Daughters who can make you obey them.  
It’s not because I don’t love you.
Well, we all have our special gifts.
I think he’s actually serious, and not just being polite.
Though the last time I saw him it was black from the smoke of war.
I hope we’ve corrected that fault pretty well in our company, sir.
What, not a word?
So give me your answer, and we’ll shake on it.
You’ve already done something you should be sorry for.
My brother is in heaven.
Nobody was hurt in the slightest.
Is that Barnardo?
Now, don’t forget, you promised me something.
By this sword, I’ll kill whichever one of you makes the first thrust.
Doesn’t he deserve it?
Go, lad, and take them to the pantry.
Stay near me so I’ll remember.
Now, by the world— It’s full of your ugly wrongdoings.
I’ve almost missed the time he requested.
But for one reason they refused to execute her.
It’s his fault that he’s all worked up like this.
Isn’t that him on the ground?
You know where I live.
Here’s to your health.
But tell me, are you speaking seriously?
Miranda.—Oh father, I’ve disobeyed you by telling him that!
Let us die honorably.
Your life is stretched to its limit.
This man is probably like that.
Hello, Tubal.
So, possessing neither a voice nor a heart for flattery, I can’t awaken the spirit of love in her so as to make him appear in his true likeness.
The hell with order!
Madam!
Enobarbus, Antony has sent you all your treasure, with generous gifts besides.
But I’m still afraid.
My lord, I wish Thursday were tomorrow.
Everything about this is unnatural!
Good question, my girl.
Your friends are up and buckling on their armor.
I have the best armor in the world.
I’ve been hurt.
I look forward to getting to know you better, Mr. Mustardseed.
Show them in.
All this so suddenly?—Edmund, what’s going on?
But who is that?
I am resolved—to let him live.
I will be angry.
Answer that question.
An evil soul using a holy story is like a criminal who smiles at you.
I can’t blame you, old lord.
Look, here she comes!
My lord?
Listen, boy!
I’m going to sell all my land.
One of you go find the forest ranger.
I’ll go to him.
There’s very little about her that’s gloomy, my lord.
What do you mean, “in a strange way”?
Has homely old age taken the alluring beauty from my poor cheeks?
Antonio, oh my dear Antonio!
Double, double toil and trouble, Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
I’m happy about that.
Yes, hand me one too.
He’s too argumentative for me.
It’s good you found me.
Go tell him about this.
No, what provoked you was your own bloody mind, which never thinks about anything but butchering.
I can’t believe that.
You knew that my sword, weakened by my love for you, would obey that love no matter what. 
Is that the man you want?
Here.
Well, it doesn’t matter.
It is, it is.
It’s a wonder you didn’t lose your life and your mind all at once.—He’s waking up.
My lord, you know I’m your friend.
I think it’s important.
If it were, you would find me such an ordinary king that you would think I’d sold my farm to buy my crown.
Here come the lovers, laughing happily.—I wish you joy, my friends!
Here, noble lord.
When I’ve plucked this rose, I can’t make it grow again; it will have no choice but to wither and die.
Oh, God!
Your light dulls when he is near.
Therefore, do your duty and take your reward, because my master and mistress are nearly frozen to death.
You can’t get out of trouble by praying or crying, so don’t bother.
I pray to God he isn’t.
Nurse!
My lord, what are you talking about?
Then it looks like Macbeth will become king.
No, the whole day, and all night too.
You bastard workhorse drudge!
He sent a messenger ahead of him who arrived here so out of breath that he could barely speak his message.
The gentleman insists on fighting a round with you, for the sake of his honor.
All right then.
I’ll go and coach them.
Let’s follow him, Gertrude.
They’ve switched their operation to the sea today.
I’ll bite you on the ear for that joke.
She’d laugh me right out of my body and kill me with her wit.
This precious little guy is putty in your hands, Sir Toby.
Never!
Pass the order along.
You’ve only insulted yourself.
No?
I’ve told you everything I know.
The night air is too raw and cold for us to stay outdoors.
The enemy gets larger each day.
Defend me, God, both when I’m asleep and when I’m awake.      
My memory is hazy, more like a dream than a recollection.
What time tomorrow should I send a messenger to you?
The English are in the field, French lords.
How could it be wisdom!
Ride out to the horsemen on that hill.
I never saw a woman except her and Sycorax, my mother.
Oh, my, it’s my husband.
Who are you, moaning in the hut like that?
In the meantime, hold on, and be patient.
She wants to have a word with you in her bedroom before you go to bed.
Sailors, sir.
Turn the ship to the wind!
I found this pinned to my tent this morning.  
Damn your mistress!
That since she’s mad herself, she’s married a madman.
What is it, Agrippa?
I thought the king preferred the Duke of Albany to the Duke of Cornwall.
I want the law, the penalty, and the fulfillment of my contract.
Yes, and he’s been carried off the field.
Richmond is sailing on the sea.
Bassanio, the best thing you can do is to keep living and write an epitaph for my gravestone.
But I will tell you that lately the duke has been displeased with his niece, and for no other reason than that people praise her virtues and pity her for her father’s sake.
This looks like an abbey.
Give me your hand and let me see you dressed in woman’s clothing.
A messenger has arrived from Caesar.
I certainly did, and I never wanted to see you again.
Go, coward that you are.
Beware Macduff.
Go to the platform, Brutus.
I’ll run from this woman who claims to be my wife as fast as I’d run from a bear.
That’s me, sir.
Take him away.
The more I suffer, the more spiteful he becomes.
Yes, I do.
The Lord Mayor is knocking.
Are you in your right mind?
Now any effort ruins what it attempts.
My lord, what do you want?
Lose nothing?
We’ll hit him on the head with the handles of our swords, then throw him in the wine barrel in the next room.
My brave relative!
Then I’ll smack you on the head with the serving-creature’s knife.
My mind and courage will never falter with doubt or shake with fear.
Unhappy fortune!
Drowned?
God should keep me from false friends, but they weren’t false.
Here he comes.
Please stay below deck, sir.
No flattery for him, no sir!
Grumio, get me my horse.
Then let God grant me that you’ll be damned for that wicked deed.
I didn’t refuse you.
I’ll wait for her here and when she comes I’ll take a novel approach with her.
The duke will agree with me on that.
Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
Please go to him, my friend.
Let me go with you to Belmont.
We owe you love and service forever.
My uncle Clarence’s angry ghost.
You have weapons?
I, sir, am Dromio.
Father, wife, friends—farewell!
If my heart’s dear love— Well, don’t swear.
The king has been informed of all their plans, but they have no idea.
Your humor is a spicy sauce.
No, and I didn’t hear anything either, or suspect anything at all.
You know what you know.
Go on!
The harvest comes shortly after that.
I’m Sir Rowland’s middle son, and I bring you news.
And last night at dinner, you got up abruptly and paced back and forth with your arms crossed, brooding and sighing, and when I asked you what was the matter, you gave me a dirty look.
His mistake was hardly worth punishing him for in the first place—though in wartime it is sometimes necessary to make examples out of even the best soldiers.
I’m begging you, take the cork out of your mouth so I can drink the news.
Innocent sweethearts, you have no idea who’s responsible for your father’s death.
Isn’t that the king?
What time is it?
That’s as good as proof that the sweet young man’s in love.
My bones want to rest after helping me up to this hour.
I will go find him.
Take him away.
An hour before you pulled me out of the breaking waves, my sister drowned.
The Moor himself is still at sea.
We beg you, for your own sake, to respect your safety and give up.
Ah sir, ah sir.
Master Constable, you’re going about this all wrong.
The day is well on its way.
Well, then, here it is
That’s it!
In that case I wish you were as good a man as a fish seller.
That’s exactly what I’ll do, my love, and I hope you’ll do the same.
I’ll give you cramps for saying that—horrible pains in your sides that will keep you from breathing.
Hurry up, hurry up.
Let me tell you, the man who marries her will become very wealthy.
Then if we lose this battle, you’ll be willing to be led in chains through the streets of Rome?
If she refuses my proposal, I’ll tell her how much I’m looking forward to the announcement and the wedding.
Let’s go inside.
If you want to make me happy, don’t wish yourself harm.
Oh, it’s a disaster, a disaster, by this hand, it’s a disaster.
She’s obedient—a fine lady.
So she is drowned.
Not at all!
What a miserable and obstinate fellow this king of England is, to blunder with his fat-headed followers so far beyond his capacity.
Your master is a wise and honorable Roman.
I have to follow him and give him the letter.
If she’s lying, I pray that I never sleep again at night or wake up during the day.
What’s the problem?
Does it mean being truthful?
And you’re not suited for any place except hell.
Well, do what you want.
Who’s there, aside from this foul weather?
No.
As good a reason as any.
I’m going far enough that I’ll be riding from now until dinner.
wise and graceful as the earth is wonderful and divine.
Pray, let me stay.
And me, too, my royal sovereign.
What’s your profession?
Listen, Signor Bassanio, there’s nothing to worry about.
But even if I thought you were right, it doesn’t matter.
You’ll see shortly how the murderer wins the love of Gonzago’s wife.
Excuse me, sir, do you know how to read?
Shame on Romeo!
No, I found it and gave it to my husband.
Take it to your master and bring him home immediately.
Better to have an extra servant on hand than be understaffed.
Let’s have the evidence.
Oh, it’s too bad!
Let me enjoy my privacy.
Wait, countrymen.
Tell me, don’t you have a virtuous and lovely daughter named Katherina?
Stop crying.
I hope he’s in love.
Give me my money and let me go.
Explain, boy.
The king will be angry with him.
Very near, and approaching fast.
I like her more than I can say.
But once he got there, the duke learned that Lorenzo and his lover Jessica were together in a gondola.
Please take them.
Sir, your description of him doesn’t detract from his good qualities, though I know that trying to list them all would make your head spin, and even so you wouldn’t be able to keep up with him.
Oh, poor shepherd!
His arrow has pierced me too deeply, so I can’t fly high with his cheerful feathers.
It’s nine o'clock!
Dear friends, let’s go to bed.
I don’t care.
I never felt it until now—two thousand ducats in that diamond, and other precious, precious jewels!
Mistress, I swear on my life that it’s true.
Yes, sir.
I overheard him and his plans.
Is it young Romeo?
Well, in and of itself, it is a good life, but given that it’s a shepherd’s life, it’s worthless.
No!
Damn my soul if these accusations are true!
As Edgar, I’m nothing at all.
I’d be ashamed to give you this.
I admit two sleeves.
We used to sit together and sew one flower with our two needles, sewing it on one piece of cloth, sitting on the same cushion, singing one song in the same key, as if our hands, our sides, our voices and our minds were stuck together.
Your love says, like an honorable gentleman, 'Where is your mother?
I say he shall go to prison.
I can’t speak anymore.
I am the only daughter in my father’s family, and all the brothers too—but I’m not completely sure about that.
Is that really what you meant?
The wind is right and it’s high tide, and I’ve delayed him a long time already.
Soldier, you must come to the king.
Give me the goblets.
Go to Adriana, you scoundrel, and quickly.
Because when rich villains need poor villains' services, those poor ones can name the price.
Nice save!
He didn’t ask questions, but answered ours at length.
Did you call me, my lord?
He’s quite simply the smartest working-man in Athens.
Can someone fall in love this quickly?
Come, why be so hesitant?
Come with me tonight, and you’ll see a man enter her bedroom chamber—even tonight, the night before her wedding.
Yoo-hoo!
As long as heaven and nature extend it.
A grandmother is loved hardly less than a mother is.
Boy!
If it looks like my good father, I’ll speak to it, even if Hell itself opens up and tells me to be quiet.
I can’t figure it out by myself!
Shame on you, warped hag!
No, calm down.
How old is he?
She stood and spoke.
Can’t he pay back the money?
Your mother is coming to your bedroom.
I shall faint.
What do you have to say for yourself?
Welcome home, Grumio.
In suicide, gods make the weak strong.
No, Octavius Caesar, we’ll respond to their charge.
If not, leave me alone, and I’ll stay away from your turf.
I was the only one who refused to give back what I stole.
What did he say?
Look, if you really love the beautiful Hero, enjoy it.
Oh, how silly we are!
Goodbye.
Whore, your lover’s dead now, and you’ll be going to hell soon.
My brother is imprisoned because of you, I am disgraced, and the nobility are held in contempt while those who two days ago weren’t worth a dime have suddenly been promoted.
Leave me, my friend.
The Prince will give you the death penalty if you get caught.
Away!
Madam!
You think I’m a sponge, my lord?
Give me your blessing.
What a pretty picture, three fools all together.
Father, this isn’t easy for me.
My lord, I have thought over the request you just made of me.
Doesn’t she realize how unworthy she is of the gentleman we have found to be her bridegroom?
Stand further away.
There is no jewel like Rosalind.
I’ve spent five years in the remotest parts of Greece and roaming all over Asia.
My Lord of Warwick and my brother Gloucester, follow Fluellen at a close distance.
Haven’t you, boy?
Who’s his lieutenant, do you know?
Don’t let us talk you into anything, but consider carefully the value of our offers.
You teach me how I should act.
I swear I will, and if I ever break my promise let me turn into a monster.
Well, the point is, he’s lost a ship.
Go, Sir Andrew.
Yes, let the count take you in your bed.
Go back to your lord.
Shut up, fool!
I’m not competitive like Antony.
And what of all this?
I wouldn’t be the villain you think I am even if I were offered all of Macbeth’s kingdom and the riches of the East too.
There was a noise, that’s certainly true.
You think so?
Is he man enough at this point to face off with Tybalt?
Well then, Margaret, Ursula, and my cousin have been very much deceived, for they swore you did.
I’ll give him equal thanks, so we’re even.
Now, herald, have the dead been counted?
Really, I had no intention of going for my sword.
He pretended that everything was fine until the moment they were exchanging vows, and then—with public accusation, blatant slander, pure hatred—Oh God, if only I were a man!
Jailer, watch out for this one.
Who here is so vile that he doesn’t love his country?
Come forward and speak.
Teach me to forget to think!
Shame on you, Demetrius!
Capulet, you villain!
Good madam, let me speak.
That won’t work, since I’m still reaping the rewards of that murder
All I’ll tell you is that the duke has had dinner already.
Oh, no question—it won’t style itself.
But don’t be easily won over.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself!
I’d rather be a toad in a moldy basement than to have only a part of someone I love, sharing the rest of her with others.
Shall we not?
How do you feel, Laertes?
It’s only just now nine o'clock.
My husband is often like this, and he has been since he was a child.
Are you making fun of me?
To tell you that you’ll see me at Philippi.
His name is Tyrrel, my lord.
You should have a guard nearby if he comes in here, because he’s clearly disturbed.
Keep myself?
Its own color.
Beat—
Give him the instructions for our amusing little contract, and I’ll go get the money for you right away.
If I come back from the battlefield again to kiss those lips, I’ll be covered in blood.
Tell me, why did the king arrive with such a small entourage?
My father-in-law lives closer to the marketplace.
If you love me, let me know by smiling at me.
Come on, you can be as angry as any guy in Italy when you’re in the mood.
What could you possibly ask for?
It would be better to die that way than to die from being mocked, which is as bad as being killed by tickling.
Who talks of my nation?
I will, in other words, kill you in three hundred and fifty ways.
Oh, I see, you will only part with lightweight presents.
Hands, speak for me!
Anyway, even if he had the money now, the Jew probably wouldn’t take it.
Good-bye, noble Agrippa.
It’s not quite that simple.
Do you honestly think—tell me, Emilia—there are women who’d cheat on their husbands in such a disgusting manner?
Do this immediately, and send him packing.
Antonio, as I heard in Genoa— What, what, what?
He couldn’t be a lion if the Romans weren’t such easy prey.
And as for my soul, how can the ghost endanger that, since it’s as immortal as the ghost is?
Sweet Desdemona!
This is like if I asked you to wear your gloves when it’s cold outside, or eat nutritious food, or do something that’s good for you.
Against my brother Lucius?
Goodbye, good sir.
My God, I’m the highest-ranking person who speaks this language—if only we were back where it’s spoken.
If you were king, we would do the same.
He did this in public?
All those memories pain his mind so deeply that guilt and shame keep him away from Cordelia.
I know you know something— Thanks for the compliment, I’m happy you know that.
Really, I’m afraid you are.
That’s right.
I pray that God will let me learn from women like that—not to follow their bad example, but to avoid it!
I’m hoping my holy mood will pass.
What a heavy sigh!
Love?
The testament!
I’m dying to see the prince.
I’m not much of a drinker.
Well, it’s not for me to say.
I know you’ll offer nothing less than that.
Definitely a tailor, sir.
Get me some ink, paper, and a candle.
I didn’t survive a shipwreck so I could be scared of your four legs now.
Farewell.
Come on, let’s go at it, Macduff, and damn the first man who cries, 'Stop!
Pretending?
O, everlasting shame!
Why have you come here in such a mob?
Don’t you have any brothers like you?
Welcome back to Denmark, my lord.
It’s a big deal to you.
She was fickle and unfaithful, like water.
Damn it, this isn’t funny.
But you can make it up to me.
Whisper to her that Ursula and I are walking in the orchard and that we’re talking all about her.
And yet I feel it’s very hot and humid, which is bad for my complexion.
I can hear the lark singing.
If I were to make a prediction regarding this union, I wouldn’t say that.
What disease is he talking about?
He’s an admirable man.
Now that I think about the danger of these knights, if you come to stay with me, please bring no more than twenty-five of them with you.
He’d stay up all night and all day if he didn’t drink himself to sleep.
Exactly.
Yes, he has.
But as I said, the general isn’t really in the mood to hear music now.
We killed those men and sent them to rest in peace so that we could gain our own peace.
That’s an odd thing to say.
What’s the matter?
Where, sir?
Anyone who says that is a lying piece of garbage.
This guy will tell us everything.
Yes, he was born at Monmouth, Captain Gower.
Very well, my supreme lord—that’s what I have to call you now.
Yes, absolutely, no question or ambiguity about it.
But if I ran away from the Jew, I’d be following the advice of the devil, who’s the very devil himself.
Give my regards to Hastings, Catesby.
Listening to their frightened voices, I couldn’t reply “Amen” when they said “God bless us!” Don’t think about it so much.
Everything’s ready.
If you who are so wise can’t help, please be kind enough to call my solution wise. 
Your brother is young and inexperienced, and because of my affection for you, I’d hate to crush him—though I’d have to, if he challenged me.
Be eloquent on my behalf.
Go find those herbs for him, before his madness puts his life in danger.
That’s foolish.
I thought that thing you’re talking about was a man.
I’ll confess to you that I love him.
If he seems game to our plan, encourage him to join us and explain all our reasons.
I swear I am.
Let any man perish who isn’t ready now!
Carry your master out.
Divide each man into a thousand, and there you will have an imaginary army.
I’ll teach you to drink hard by the time you leave.
I just know I’m not one.
Now, my dearest Queen— Please, stand farther away from me.
Cheer up as much as you can.
We’ll probably witness many more outbursts from him, like banishing Kent.
I’ve been informed by certain sources I can’t disclose that your younger brother Orlando plans to fight me in disguise.
Who wouldn’t get sad thinking about things like that?
Ever since these deadly conflicts erupted between your violent countrymen and ours, both you Syracusians and we Ephesians have held serious councils and decided not to permit any travel between our two hostile towns.
My dear lord, if it was you who conquered her and took her virginity— I know what you’re about to say.
I’ll trust my determination and my hands, but none of Caesar’s men.
Seriously, I think our clothes are as fresh now as they were the day we put them on in Africa, when we attended the marriage of the king’s daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
Do you like her, Claudio?
What is logical, then, my lord?
It’s a nice hazy feeling, so give in to it.
Who?
If she restrained your rowdy knights, she had such a good reason that you can’t blame her for it.
Name them.
Mankind is so beautiful!
Quiet, I say.
Say welcome to all of our friends for me, sir, for in my heart they are all welcome.
Is the Prince’s punishment any less awful than doomsday?
What if she won’t kiss me?
It isn’t good for your health to expose your weak body to the raw, cold morning.
Come, sisters, let’s cheer him up and show him our talents.
But I reversed the death sentence.
The three who share the known world are aboard your boat.
Who’s there?
Come, uncle Exeter, enter Harfleur.
No, I’ll go find some ditch to die in.
The best plays are still only illusions, and the worst are just as good, if you just use your imagination to fill them in.
How did this happen?
All right then, confess and live.
I hope lightning strikes her in the eyes!
I think you’re right, sir.
As for the rest of the ships, I scattered them, and they’ve gathered again in the Mediterranean, sailing sadly home to Naples, believing that they witnessed the shipwreck and death of their great king.
Good.
I swear by my sword— Swear by your shield, too!
The tunnels!
Cover the sky with a low-hanging fog, as dark as hell, and get these overeager rivals so completely lost in the woods that they can’t run into each other.
But truly, if I were as 
Help us carry these clothes to where my barrel of wine is hidden, or I’ll kick you out of my kingdom.
She can’t even imagine what “love” is.
Where do you think he is now?
Well, I’ll hurry and put these papers where you told me.
If it pleases you, your highness, will you lead us all inside?
And there’s nothing I can do about it.
Now, no more questions.
Uncle, this man is a Montague—our enemy.
What are you doing, Caesar?
I think he’ll carry this island home in his pocket and give it to his son like an apple.
What is your name?
What’s this?
Hey, look over there!
What should we say, my lord?
Should I blab to her that you’re coming?
People don’t cry when they’re mocking someone. 
Your husband, being saddled with a shrew, projects his own suffering onto my husband.
It scares me just to hear you talk about it.
How are you?
Weren’t you the one who made him desert Perigouna in the middle of the night, right after he’d raped her?
Who’s there?
I might do something I’ll be sorry for.
The two of them were separated during the storm.
No, I have a commitment.
Hermia is lucky, wherever she is, because she has beautiful eyes.
It’s torture, not mercy.
What looks like a horse is quick as thought disfigured by the wind, made as difficult to distinguish as water poured into water.
But the enemy is loud.
Yes, Petruchio.
How is it, my husband—oh, how is it—that you have become a stranger to yourself?
It’s time for you to know the whole story.
If there’s any doubt, there is no doubt.
While the moon was shining we didn’t even notice the candle.
Cassio, how did you get my wife’s handkerchief?
Why, that’s just the way to frustrate their plans and defeat their absurd intentions.
But please, forgive me, your highness.
Then please tell me he’s all right.
I’ll follow you and turn this hell I’m in into a kind of heaven.
Good point, Decius.
Oh, proud Death, what banquet are you preparing that you’ve needed to knock off so many princes at one stroke?
In fact, I’d do even more to him than what you’ve heard him promise to do.
You couldn’t find out anything about them?
The saddle maker has it, sir—I didn’t keep it.
for the other men, we can make them believe anything we choose.
Oh, what a relief!
Here come Brabantio and the brave Moor.
Remember March, March 15th.
I know you.
They grow like savages—like soldiers who meditate on nothing but blood—surrounded by swearing and stern looks, ragged clothing and everything unnatural.
Can’t do it.
Shall I be your slave?
Ungodly and monstrous!
Be my witness, oh you blessed moon.
I’ve said what I have to say.
We won’t hold back any of our wisdom.
On a night like this!
I heard someone say that’s what it means.
Quiet!
It’s a reason for suspicion, even though it’s just a dream.
What would you say to me now if I really were your precious little Rosalind?
Can you stay awake a bit longer and play a few tunes on your lute?
How could so many people, under two masters, get along under one roof?
How many, can you guess?
Why couldn’t you be attended by my servants, or by Regan’s?
The lack of time and the risk I’m under will have to keep us from bonding and catching up on each other’s news the way we usually would after not seeing each other for so long.
Can’t you wait for a moment?
If not, he’s got truth on his side!
Do you even get what I’m saying?
Cesario, you missed your appointment with me.
And since we dream at night, time passes quickly then.
Then if he dies, his death serves him.
God be with you and keep you, and may he heal your head.
So goodbye until we meet again.
All other devils who tempt people to treason patch together some motive, put together from shreds
Don’t you see my baby suckling at my breast so that its nurse will fall asleep?
Go pinch your cheeks and bring some color back into your face, you cowardly boy.
Bad news, my lord.
If you ever loved your poor dear father— Oh God!
What was the second noise for?
Antonio and Shylock, both of you come forward.
Don’t I have a reason to be angry, you disobedient hags?
What do you want?
But you’re still complaining of darkness and a bad view?
What are you doing, old man?
Shylock is my name.
It’s your job in life to kill the innocent?
Oh!
Let’s listen to him.
Yes.
Do you want to go see him?
With my eye sockets?
No.
Ask your husband if you doubt me.
You’re under arrest, sir.
He sent me word that, whether I liked it or not, he liked it fine.
Always give him his way.
Fever, as we know, is a kind of madness.
Bad friends were.
I wish they were, so that I could die right now, because, at this point, I live a living death.
What is the matter?
He’s eager to see your head.
I didn’t call you.
That’s true.
Now I’ll get Cassio to do something in front of all these drunkards that will offend everyone on the island.
Whichever hand literally stabbed their tender hearts, you’re the one who gave the order.
I did too, and he also swore he would marry her tonight.
He did, very sincerely.
I hope you haven’t lost your mind.
Go, but sign the deed.
I’ve told you what I intend to do, and I’ve sworn by the holy Sabbath to seek the penalty that is due according to our contract.
Well, God bless this marriage!
Listen to my reasons and be silent so you can hear.
I think a few members of the court should fetch the young prince from Wales and bring him to London to be crowned our king.
I have quarreled four times, and almost got in a fight.
How often tonight have my old feet stumbled on gravestones!
Is something about to happen that warrants working this night and day?
No, great king.
I think so too.
Oh, sir, the problem goes far deeper than you realize.
Right on time.
You defend yourself by blaming my judgment, but you’re just making up feeble excuses. 
Yes, sir, but not when I’m enraged.
Eros, send his treasure to him.
True.
And he told us to follow him to the temple.
I see a woman may be made a fool of if she doesn’t have nerve enough to stand up for herself.
That’s what the bill says.
Well, girl, you’re weeping not for his death as much as for the fact that the villain who killed him is still alive.
Sir, I believe this piece of trash, Bianca, has something to do with all this trouble.—Hang in there, Cassio.—Come here, bring the light.
You’re not in love either?
This is as bad as the tortures of hell.
Come on, you’re being ridiculous!
Drink up.
A grave?
Then, to answer every man briefly, wisely, and truthfully—wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
Get out of my sight!
There’s justice in heaven after all!
What was your dream?
If you’ll take a simple man’s advice, don’t be here when it arrives.
I never gave him any token of romantic love.
Look how the judge yells at a simple thief.
Can’t you talk?
Are you really going to pretend you don’t know me now?
From now on, goodness in women, not superficial beauty, will win my heart.
Why are you talking like this?
of her father.
He can act as brave as he wants, but I believe on a cold night like this he wishes he were neck-deep in the Thames, and I wish he were, too, and I with him, whatever the danger, so long as we were far away from here.
The town is asking for a pause in the fighting for negotiation.
Go on ahead.
Shall we get started?
That’s true—if the devil’s judging her.
The more I love him, the more he hates me.
If that’s true, he won’t get it back by crying.
I’ll lock up the doors, grab some more ducats, and be with you right away.
Get us out of here.  
I will, Caesar.
Sir Topas!
Calling death banishment is like cutting off my head with a golden ax and smiling while I’m being murdered.
Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin.
Eros!
You look tired.
I’ll go see my mother soon.
I urge you to deliver your verdict.
Come on, my dear Greek philosopher.
Isn’t it strange?
Could the lead one contain it?
For my part, I really don’t care.
Because my name is George.
Come, I’ll show you your bridal chamber.
Whether your banquet is first or last, your Egyptian cooking will make it the best.
Did you have no poison, no sharp knife, no weapon you could use to kill me quickly, nothing so disgraceful, except banishment?
Hello, brother Edmund.
Yes, I swear.
And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus.
I like your new wig and headdress, though I’d like it more if the hair were a shade browner.
Shall we go watch this wrestling, cousin?
I will, even if I were king of all kingdoms.
The boy is warning me that someone approaches.
Let him become Caesar!
If you can’t, and would prefer to leave, she’s very willing to say goodbye to you.
You’re a good judge of horsemanship.
I’m losing this duel of wits.
This will make our actions seem practical and not vengeful.
Calm down, calm down.
I don’t expect Caesar and Antony will have a very friendly reunion.
Nothing, Messala.
I have to go to England, don’t you know that?
I hope luck will give me what my heart hopes for!
I’m a soldier, more experienced than you, and better able to give orders.
What performances have been prepared?
Well, the tree bears rotten fruit.
The jewels you took from me to deliver to Desdemona would’ve made even a nun want to sleep with me.
Brother— Quiet.
So here’s the plan.
Signed, she who would be your servant,     The Fortunate Unhappy.” This is as clear as sunlight in an open field.
That’s why I praise myself, who—if I do say so myself—is quite praiseworthy.
Take some men and horses and go to her.
Call him.
We have a little dessert coming up. 
No, lovely princess.
Portia is dead.
Murder!
I couldn’t see you, Lysander, but I heard your voice, and that’s how I found you.
It’s as silent as a graveyard here.
Fight valiantly today.
But go on.
I like the morning.
Oh, on my soul, my cousin has been slandered falsely!
If that were true, then I’d know your secret.
I’m afraid that I wrong the honorable men whose daggers have stabbed Caesar.
I’ll be crippled forever!
Indeed, my child, at Saint Peter’s Church early Thursday morning, the gallant, young, and noble gentleman Count Paris will happily make you a joyful bride.
I’ll go and join my men.
Since you are a lying hypocrite, we must look after you.
Lazy people end up at the bottom, and you deserve to be at the top.
He’s slept a long time.
I should sit in the corner and sing that song, “Heigh-Ho for a Husband!” Lady Beatrice, I’ll get you a husband.
The beautiful Helen of Troy had a thousand suitors.
And Cassius too.
I’m glad to see you in such a merry mood.
Yes, that’s all true—but what do you mean by it, my lord?
If it’s possible to do this without putting yourself in danger, dear Captain Blunt, say goodnight to him from me and give him this important note.
Until the day we die, my lord.
Read it.
No.
Are you indeed?
God gives you one face, but you paint another on top of it.
If I ever come back, I’ll bring you good news.
A gentleman?
Say, uncle Richard, if my brother comes, where will I stay till my coronation?
Alright, let’s fight, boy!
That “may be” must be, love, on Thursday.
If that’s true, then don’t be tongue-tied.
I’ve never seen the waters so disturbed.
I’ll fight until they hack the flesh off my bones.
That part is up to you.
Lead the way, sir.
Come on, get ready.
That’s merciful but a bit careless.
What are these warlike noises?
My soul is stuck to sin, and the more it struggles to break free, the more it sticks.
If I can believe my eyes, this is a fine sight to see.
You’ll never see me again, whether or not he’s dead.
What’s the treasure, uncle?
Get out of here, before his bad luck infects you too.
I had a round with him, and his sword thrust is so deadly that you can’t even duck out of the way.
You’ll be my role model.
Wasn’t Charles, the duke’s wrestler, here to speak with me?
It’s true I’m not married, Caesar.
Oh sweet Nurse, what news do you bring?
I wish my father could see them with my eyes.
Come, this way to the rowboat.
But I have known people who sleepwalked and weren’t guilty of anything.
I don’t see any blood.
Here’s more insanity for us.
Macbeth has heard this news and he is so angry that he’s preparing for war.
I never gave him reason to be jealous.
You are an honest man.
Unfaithful, my lord?
There aren’t three people in all of Egypt who could do better.
I’ll pull on these smaller legs.
Very serious, and I’m sure it’s because of Beatrice.
Peter, did you ever see anything like it?
What—is he scared of a gun that only fired a blank?
Then both my grief and your sorrow will be cured.
Let him come in.
You have seen the cruel proof of this man’s strength.
I’m not afraid of dead uncles.
I may command the one I love.” Well, she commands me.
Good!
Caesar is listening.
You say the king is losing his mind.
Did she see you there the whole time, old boy?
These are tricks.
His soul is as dull as night and dark as the underworld.
See that it is done, and prepare a feast for the soldiers.
Sir, sir, that can’t be true.
What could I hope to get from you, who’ve got nothing but your charm to support you in life?
If this is so, be patient, sister.
I won’t.
I’ve decided on a plan that doesn’t require your assistance.
Why did I ever have one?
God bless your Grace with health and happy days.
That’s not the tune I had in mind.
Why, then, it’s my body’s doomsday.
I’m glad that my weak words have provoked even this small show of protest from you.
Tomorrow I’ll send the messenger.
My own flesh and blood turned against me!
Where is Duncan’s body?
Oh, how strange!
You are not as happy as Macbeth, yet much happier.
He is in heaven, where you will never go.
It’s not yet daylight.
She can hide there and eavesdrop on our conversation.
That’s an oath of great power, and our fury must subside.
The sun will never be seen by such royal eyes again.
This repays me.
You should be ashamed, generals!
I think there must be something invigorating about death, since she dies with such enthusiasm.
My dear clever Ariel, listen carefully.
Here’s the money you asked me to hold.
Ah, it’s a sensitive animal, with a good conscience.
I can swim like a duck, I swear.
Anyone who refuses to drink to my niece until his brain spins around like a merry-go-round is scum.
Her blood has stopped, and her joints are stiff.
The queen wants you to chat with Laertes—politely—before you begin your match.
He killed your relative, brave Mercutio, and then young Romeo killed him.
Cupid is a bad boy for making poor women go crazy like this.
I can’t live by pretending anymore.
Then sure ones.
Go with my brothers to my English peers.
I swear I do.
I know you.
So, may the gods protect you and change the hearts of the Romans so that they turn and give you their support.
Signior Baptista, I’m actually in a bit of a hurry.
Good man, why are you crying?
And if he fails at that, he will find other ways to kill you.
From my kind uncle, who I know will give it to me, especially as it’s not worth much.
My king, they haven’t come back yet.
Last night, when that star to the west of the North Star had traveled across the night sky to that point where it’s shining now, at one o'clock, Marcellus and I— Quiet, shut up!
Anything your Highness suffered in that disguise, I beg you to see it as your own fault and not mine, because if you’d been what I took you for, there would have been no offense.
I got it from you—I never said I didn’t.
I insist, don’t be more distressed than I am.
Where is that poor rash man?
He’d really be your proxy if he married you.
We say the king is wise and good, and his noble queen is getting old, pretty, and not jealous.
Sir, what is your opinion of me?
I’ve rented land from you and your father for eighty years.
Passionately”?
You are welcome here.
Come, then, and send his body to Thasos.
Not true, not true.
Don’t trouble him further until his mind is more settled.
Your case is better than that.
Give me my sin back.
But he’s sleeping.
Cassius, what a night this is!
Just as if they were perfectly loyal and faithful.
Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, please go find my lady Olivia— Get out, demon!
Why, Fool?
Well, I cannot tell how my difficult life has weathered my face, but I will never let those difficulties subdue my courage. 
But when exactly will we see Benedick married?
I have a bad cold that’s bothering me.
Where’s Antony?
You attract me to you, you cruel magnet!
I’d rather see you having fun, because we have friends coming who want to have fun.
Lead us, monster; we’ll follow.
We will.
Pick up the corpses.
Trebonius!
Answer me in a word.
The nine Muses mourning the death of learning and scholarship.” That’s some sharp, critical satire, and it’s not appropriate for a wedding.
What’s this, my lord?
Oh, they continually urged the king to do it.
It’s better that you didn’t kill him.
No, he’s an ordinary guy who ’s got a gentleman for a son, since someone would have to be crazy to let his son become a gentleman before he’s achieved that distinction himself.
If you let go of your power to attract me, I won’t have any power to follow you.
Madam, I’ve come here to try to make you like him.
Well then, sing a lullaby to your generosity
Then why be jealous of a person like that?
Nobody I care about more than myself.
Poor poisonous fool, be angry and bite.
Now, Brutus, you have only yourself to thank.
A pound of human flesh taken isn’t even as valuable as a pound of mutton or beef.
But he would feel even better if I could tell him that you had left Antony and put yourself under his protection.
They’re on the march.
I had a dream last night.
But my daughter should know about this, so she can be prepared with an answer just in case.
God save your Majesty.
In order to make your company even more enjoyable, I’m going to keep to myself until suppertime.
Even if she lives till the end of the world, she’d keep burning an additional week.
It sounds more like you’re insulting me.
Octavia weeps at the thought of leaving Rome.
Every minute we expect more ships to arrive.
It seems he has taken great care to please his wife.
Double, double toil and trouble, Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
Help me out of here, quickly!
Then where would you have me go, Adam?
Have you ever heard of anything like that, Roderigo?
Oh, Caesar!
When you find out who started this disagreement, turn your anger upon them.
Add defiance to all this and, by way of conclusion, tell him that he has betrayed the men who follow him, whose death sentence has been pronounced.” My king and master’s message delivered, my task is done.
He has, my lord.
You, good friend, save me a piece of marzipan, and if you love me, have the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
Just send him here, and I’ll persuade him.
The court has sent for us.
We’ll come with you, your Grace.
Well, I’ve begun my reign with a carefully thought-out plan, and I have every hope of succeeding.
Away, get out of here.
I didn’t accuse you of lying.
Yes, it’s well built, and the ship’s pilot is very expert and experienced.
My dear Miss Chat-her-up, I look forward to getting to know you better.
What?
Yes, indeed they are.
You, who are neither honest nor good.
Your Clarence, who stabbed my Edward, is also dead.
This contract doesn’t give you any blood at all.
Quiet, you stupid fool.
Where is he?
All right.
Who are all these people?
I can only walk a little way with you, since I’m waiting here.
Where do you come from?
Tell him my fury will abate, and I’ll take the crowns.
If she and I are happy, what’s it to you?
I’ll tell my husband what you’ve said, Launcelot.
He’s an honest man who detests evil actions.
Oh, goodbye!
Horrid villain!
Did you just call me “beautiful”?
I pray that the mighty gods defend you!
Girls who marry so young grow up too soon.
Heaven help me, I don’t know you, sir.
I’ll spend tonight working to make something horrible happen.
He’s dead.
Good Lord, what a clown you are!
Ring the alarm bell.
He stayed like that a long time.
Is that his answer?
Speak up and tell me!
Look out, he’s coming!
It wouldn’t hurt you to be charitable.
My royal lord, you’re not entertaining the guests.
What a wise judge!
But before they reached us–let me say no more!
Then both, or one, or anything you like.
Tell your men as much.
What does that have to do with my Lysander?
It doesn’t make either of us happy, I know.
No, it hasn’t, my lord.
You can take your chances after dinner.
Sweet flowers for a sweet girl.
Sometimes I think I’m no smarter than average.
Who else should it be?
I won’t hurt him.
Be invisible to everyone except yourself and me.
There is a crab-apple here.
Oh, monstrous!
Who could have restrained himself, who loved Duncan and had the courage to act on it?
What do you want with her, sir?
I’d deny whatever evidence you had against me—even if it were in my own handwriting—and turn it all into evidence against you and your plans for treachery.
No thanks, my good mother.
This treachery of yours is like the second 
Calm down.
If they’d put you in the stocks for asking that question, you would’ve deserved it.
If we aren’t relieved in an hour, we have to return to our barracks.
Which of these bad things happened to him?
Before she began shedding tears all over her lovely face, she was the fairest creature in the world—and even now she has no equal.
With all my heart.—Three or four of you go welcome him.—In the meantime, I’ll read Bellario’s letter out loud.
I know this quality in you, Brutus—it’s as familiar to me as your face.
It’s a green-eyed monster that makes fun of the victims it devours.
My master’s a total Jew.
Neither death nor life will stop me from coming.
Oh, please let me.
But, hey, this doesn’t mean you’re looking to get married, does it?
Yes, it is, I think.
Yes, sir, I have.
Calm down.
If she was young and passionate, she’d move as fast as a ball.
Let’s see, how can I
You mean this is the whole problem, that she is shy and hasn’t said everything she means to say and do?—My lord of Burgundy, what do you have to say to this lady?
Healing is part and parcel of my religious vows; it is a charitable duty my order performs.
How do you feel?
If we don’t, it’ll be the biggest disappointment of our lives.
I can tell your Majesty, the duke is a brave man.
We have to be married properly.
Duke of Burgundy, if you want peace, the lack of which creates these misfortunes you describe, you must purchase it buy agreeing across-the-board to all our very just demands.
My noble uncle, do you know why he acts this way?
I tell you, man, it’s better for me, too, than the last time we met here.
He’s awfully proud, but his pride suits him.
Then love me, Rosalind.
No, to the Whitefriars monastery.
Have faith, love me, and you will get better.
I would, if I had a mirror.
I won’t listen to your pleas or excuses.
I admit I’m only a woman, but nevertheless I’m the woman Lord Brutus took for his wife.
Think about it.
There may be a time for everything, but no man who has gone bald naturally can get his hair back.
My dearest sister!
Why are you so sad?
You’ve said what you have to say now.
But things have changed there, and it’s easier for them on the road now.
Then I will swear to Kate and you to me, and may our oaths be faithfully kept and prove fortunate.
When I send for you, come out wearing masks.
No, not at all— All right, all right.
Nah, I’ll never be aware of my own wit, until I break my shins on it.
I assure you he can.
You know what, my lord?
I know your position.
You can’t find that out, even if you held my heart in your hand you couldn’t make me tell you.
That’s a nasty garter belt.
You should be able to endure this because the world is broad and wide.
We’ll begin the ceremony the way we hope it will end—with delight.
Ride, ride, Messala.
Lord, Lord, she’ll be a happy woman.
Sir, sir, sir—
Good luck.
So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
Please take them off.
What about Stanley?
I’m just worried that you’ve been cozying up to her, and gotten intimate with her.
After midnight, for two nights running, these two guards, Marcellus and Barnardo, saw a figure that looked very much like your father, in full armor from head to toe.
Please, don’t forget to leave me a tip.
Am I that name, Iago?
What is fated to happen must happen.
Lunatics, lovers, and poets all are ruled by their overactive imaginations.
Good Cinna, take this paper and be sure to lay it in the judge’s chair where Brutus sits, so he’ll find it.
Let’s go for it.
Damned Iago!
This is the end of my journey, the end of my life.
I’m very glad I came to see you.
How did he try to persuade you to love him?
No one ever gave a prayer like that before going to sleep.
I don’t make fortunes; I only see them.
If you weren’t a man, then what kind of animal were you when you first told me you wanted to do this?
Please—and I’ll pay you plenty for this—help me conceal my identity, and find me the right disguise so I can look the way I want.
Come, gentlemen, let’s discuss tomorrow’s action in my tent.
The king wishes to know if you want to play against him right away, or wait awhile.
Let me have it now.
Aren’t you Romeo?
They’re entirely welcome.
Unkindness is powerful, and his unkindness may kill me, but it’ll never destroy my love.
True, noble prince.
You seem to be a good person, captain, and although people who look beautiful are often corrupt inside, I believe that you have a beautiful mind to go with your good looks and manners.
Has it been a quiet night?
If not, then I have no powers of observation.
I hope Demetrius comes to love you as much as you love him!
Do you even know what you’re talking about?
If there’s any reason we shouldn’t get married, I urge you to tell me.
An annoying schoolboy, unworthy of such an honor, joined by a masquerader and a partier!
I’m sure I can answer for him—he doesn’t know any, either.
You, sir, where’s my daughter?
Go find him, please, and bring him to my tent.
Whenever he talks about her he can’t stop laughing.
No, not a penny.
Remember to see me today.
Well, you have made a foolish choice.
If you had been afraid to break an oath with him, the crown you are currently wearing would have graced the head of my child, and both princes would still be alive, not preyed on by worms.
It was the play in which you wooed the gentlewoman so successfully.
Bottom!
Tell me your secrets.
But both of these were put off by Elizabeth Grey, a careworn mother of many children who had once been a beauty but was now a stressed-out widow long past her prime.
Can you smell out his secret now?
If he’s not around, bring his brother Oliver to me.
Our land forces have bravely stood firm.
Paying debts is for peasants.
Oh, I suffered along with all the men I watched suffer!
You should say, “I sort of know him, but not well.
Think about it carefully.
He writes brave poems, speaks brave words, makes brave promises, and then breaks them just as bravely.
Both of you are very welcome here.
Oh!
You’re bleeding a lot.
You suffered a loss like mine?
He who chooses me will get what many men want.” What many men want—that “many” could mean that most people are fools and choose by whatever is flashy.
Everybody knows I’m a nice piece of flesh.
That’s unbelievably bad.
Iago has kept his word.
Now, before the sun comes up and burns away the dew, I have to fill this basket of mine with poisonous weeds and medicinal flowers.
Agrippa, go start the battle.
This box is too threatening.
This is no place for you; this home is now a slaughterhouse.
She says she thinks this is a prank.
Where is this man?
Two of them are completely honorable, and if they have been tricked in this, we must blame John the Bastard, who lives to create conflict.
Antonio!
Hmm, let me see
It’s easy for a liar to pretend to feel sorrow when he actually feels none.
He and his daughter are captured.
A man of great influence.
I will, sir.
I wish that no one could avenge my cousin’s death except me!
Is it possible?
For lawyers on vacation, because they sleep their holidays away, with no sense of how time moves.
Let’s look in his pockets.
He’ll release him.
But she, your subject, hates such a king.
We’ll keep the lines of communication open between us.
But for a fine, elegant, graceful, and excellent dress, yours is worth ten of those.
She’s cheating on me?
Cassius, go to the next street and divide the crowd.
Oh, I wish you weren’t, you poor, frightened soul.
He leaves me to my own contentment, but that’s the one thing I cannot find.
These corpses suggest mayhem.
Your grave is gaping open, and your death is near.
Come, find the conspirators!
Let’s go to the king.
For besides the good news, we are also celebrating his marriage.
Sin from my lips?
He’s lying through his teeth!
The gods protect him from so great a shame!
Where am I?
I serve the king, who sent me here.
Did you accompany Caesar home?
I’ve already slept, my lord.
Fool, speak well of yourself.
I won’t be kind to you.
God protect you from them and from other false friends!
You’re in the charge of an honorable man.
You can be married tomorrow if you want.
It’s not the right time to play.
I’m sorry.
I know him well.
Don’t worry about me.
Please, my friend, give me all the news, both good and bad, at the same time.
You still haven’t said anything incriminating.
Great Queen Juno is coming.
There’s a feud between the two dukes.
Then we can let this ambitious tyrant continue unchallenged until each of us is killed at his whim.
So is Lysander.
My lord, Hamlet’s going to his mother’s room.
I’m off to Venice to buy outfits for the wedding.
But now, I tell you—keep it to yourself, though—those enemies of mine are being put to death today, and I’m better than I’ve ever been.
But, oh, heavenly Rosalind!
Oh, rude and unthankful boy!
How can you square things with me?
When the barrel’s empty, we’ll drink water.
But where’s my fool?
Did you give everything to your two daughters and end up like this?
I have no choice.
It’s something, it’s nothing
It’s a nice hand, an open one.
Well, I’m nearly finished.
No more foolish talk.
Your sister’s the better soldier of the two.
The fool’s nice enough, but he’s such a huge eater, and slow as a snail when he works.
Besides, she treats me more respectfully than the other servants.
What was the last cry for?
Now I see that all three of them have gotten together to play this cruel trick on me.
If she lives a long and happy life, then all women may as well turn into monsters.
Go back to my sister’s.
Oh, Cassius, I’ll run far from this country to where no Romans can find me.
I won’t either, sir.
So you had time as you were dying to look around?
I’d say I was “out of my element,” but that phrase is overused, so I’ll say I’m “out of my air.”
And so, on the wings of imagination and at the speed of thought, our scene flies swiftly on.
I hope you enjoy the same sweet peace and rest I feel in my heart.
I dreamed the souls of the people Richard murdered came to my tent and promised me victory.
It must be.
Just tell me this
Come on, don’t quarrel with us, good old man.
It’s too bad their beauty fades right when it reaches perfection!
But I didn’t want to be free like this.
I guess not—for good reason, as you’ll soon hear.
An honest guy who’s as poor as the king.
Show.
No doubt the murderous knife was blunt till it was sharpened on your stony heart—you reveled in my lambs' bloody guts.
Even innocents cannot always escape disaster.
Everyone else will have to stay single.
That will please God, who has him now.
Before the bat flies through the castle, and before the dung beetle makes his little humming noise to tell us it’s nighttime, a dreadful deed will be done.
It’s like this
As for him, I never think about him.
What?
Forever and a day.
But I can’t be too obvious about being on your side without risking the life of your stepbrother, young George.
Saw who?
Let’s go, Nerissa.—
Is it possible Fulvia is dead?
I’ll leave him alone.
And he’s rubbed himself with perfume.
Yes, your Majesty.
I’ll do everything she wants me to do.
Oh, Fate, come and cut the thread of my life.
Mercutio, you hang out with Romeo.
Why, what did he do?
Yes, with the sign underneath him that says
Please, go away.
I’ll have to tell the story again every month, since you seem to forget it.
From that cabin I’d call out to my soul.
Well then, add some interjections that indicate laughter, like  Hold on, Friar.
Oh, I’d never be that cruel.
There’s a time for all things.
The sight made me so sick I couldn’t watch any more. 
But I’m as noble as my opponent.
Rome has lost the ability to raise noble men!
Draw your sword, you jerk!
Go get my best clothes.
If you don’t mind, I need to rest a bit.
Amen to that, Gonzalo.
How did they die?
And he deserves it, having been excellent before he had a reputation for it.
Follow me.
He is a gentleman of a good family, and for his ransom, he will give you two hundred crowns.
What did you say to me?
Ugly, wrinkled witch, what are you doing here?
That’s what makes it “sensitive” news.
I hope God keeps that monster from growing in Othello’s mind!
Here’s to you, Menas.
That duke who lives nearby is courting her.
Go and get our stuff onto the ship.
Suffolk died first, and York, cut to pieces, came to him where he lay in his blood and took him by the face, kissing his gashes.
Is the visor of my helmet working better now?
Very near, my master.
The duke is temperamental.
I’m about to fly away.
What’s she trying to say?
Something about Hamlet.
So with no money, but a little more wisdom, I’m going back to Venice.
Save that kind of harsh language for your worst enemy.
Send for him, dear uncle.
I’m watching the play.
Nah, I don’t care what their 
It’s another Hero!
I  Let’s not break the law by starting a fight.
You haven’t lost it unless you think you have.
So submit to my mercy or, like men who revel in their own destruction, challenge me to do my worst.
Well then, you must be in love.
It doesn’t matter.
Damn those words, “but yet!” “But yet” is like a jailer about to bring out some horrible criminal.
I’m telling you this story for a reason.
Where’s the necklace?
If my lips had the power to give life, I would wear them out like this.
What will we say is our excuse for being here?
My lady, will you have a dance with me?
It’s good for your fresh wound and your bloody noggin.
My situation is desperate.
I am no villain.
Civil wounds now can heal, and peace can live again.
Oh, it’s horrible of her.
Goddammit!
That’s enough, Dromio, please.
He’ll be a good governor.
Hello, you idiot.
Nothing, but this is true.
Please don’t tell me any more.
You’ve made up your mind, then?
With a touch of green in it.
Liar and slave!
But I’m sorry I’ve blurted all this out.
Is this my prize?
And that’s true too.
My brother thinks highly of you, and because of his affection, has helped arrange your marriage—but that was definitely a waste of his time and energy.
In this day and age, if a man doesn’t erect his own monument before he dies, he won’t be remembered past the funeral bell’s ringing and his widow’s crying.
I swear to God, if I hadn’t seen this with my own eyes I’d never believe it.
We’ll both be safer if we go separate ways.
No lady could be more miserable than I if you two disagree.
No, it’s true, or if it’s not, I’m a villain.
A faithful shepherd worships you.
I pledged my love to you before you asked me to.
Oh yes, you spoke, my lord, but total nonsense.
Nothing.
Oh, oh, oh!
I’m afraid his mother may have had an affair with a blacksmith.
Did you say Caesar fainted?
I’m not a traitor, unfair lady.
What do you say?
And they respond to you with their hearts as well.
Aren’t these woods less perilous than the court, with all its jealousies and intrigues?
What was the philosopher Pythagoras’s belief about wild birds?
I haven’t done anything to you.
If that’s true, which it is, she might as well be in love with a dream, the poor lady.
Oh, holy Friar, Oh, tell me, holy Friar, where is my lady’s husband?
If a ship’s leaving, come to the marketplace.
You do your job well.
I found them on a tree.
Your highness, could you send me on a mission to the ends of the earth?
Tell her to come here.
You don’t know whether it was wisdom or fear that made him flee.
Do you think I’d break my oath?
Come on, what would you say about me?
Let me talk to you about your situation.
So, if all turns out fine, as you say, it’s more than we deserve or I expect.
You don’t know my voice?
No, it’s not as deep as a well, or as wide as a church door, but it’s enough.
Fate, do your work.
You can’t stay here any longer.
Shall I include hell as well?
Remember what I’ve told you.
Oh my, my bones ache so much.
Lord Hamlet.— Please let him be all right!
Take on someone your own size
Remember that Hamlet is young and has a lot more freedom to fool around than you do.
I’ll try to persuade him to put on something more appropriate before going to the church, if it’s at all possible.
The king of Naples, my arch-enemy, listens to my brother’s request, which was that the king, in exchange for the respect and money paid to him, would get rid of me and make my brother Duke of Milan instead.
Let’s go greet him when he lands.
I know that, sir.
The women you rape are the ones who’ll have to “sense” it.
Take that, and that!
He won’t listen to anyone’s advice.
Go ahead if you want, but remember that crying doesn’t suit a man.
Leonato, am I standing here?
But gilded tombs contain worms.
I beg your pardon for loving you too much.
I wish some god could help me choose!
Why, sir, must he?
Yes.
Tomorrow is the day.
Take his sword away from him.
I’m very glad to see you.
The stuff you had at the Centaur, sir.
Life, wealth, everything belongs to Death.
Fortinbras swore never to threaten Denmark again.
This guy has legs like a man but fins for arms!
Would you ever do such a thing for all the world?
Weren’t you banished on pain of death?
And no man with a reputation will tarnish that name with lies and bad behavior.
I’ll either fight you, Macbeth, or else I’ll put down my sword unused.
How many people who are humble now would be great then?
Ah, leave it alone.
Messenger after messenger delivered news of your bravery to the king with praise for how you defended his country.
What did that gentile fool say to you, hmmm?
I have no personal reason to strike at him—only the best interest of the people.
It’s probably some noble gentleman stopping off in mid-journey, thinking to spend the night here.
I mean, is the jay more precious than the lark because his feather is more beautiful?
If you say one more word, I’ll punish you, maybe even hate you.
Just cry out, “Ah me!” Just say “love” and “dove.” Say just one lovely word to my good friend 
I didn’t like the way a particular courtier had cut his beard.
Goodbye, goodbye.
Oh sirs, consider this
Then he shook Bassanio’s hand affectionately—and they separated.
Ah, no.
How horrible!
Damn that Toby!
That’s not what I wish.
It’s all I can do to keep myself from hanging my head down in despair and singing it like poor Barbary.
Halfway down the cliff there’s somebody clinging to the rock and gathering wild herbs—a risky business!
As wicked as I am, they were slaughtered because of me, not because of anything they did.
hundred times.
Call the numbskull back in here.
Why, Dromio?
And this is what you told me he said
At your service, madam.
If any ships are sailing, I’ll get right on one.
So if four negatives make two affirmatives, I’m worse off because of my friends and better off because of my foes.
Come here, Ariel.
They are, my lord.
What villain, madam?
We’ll meet at the giant oak tree in the duke’s forest.
If we welcome our punishment, we punish it right back by seeming to take it lightly.
No.
That’s the one
Oh, Kate, prudish customs bow before great kings.
I have more reason to be distressed.
Be there, or don’t show your face again.
Only Antony was at fault.
Juliet lies here, and her beauty fills this tomb with light.
Who’s this?
But how?
Who’s there?  
No, I’m sure it has, Volumnius.
They’re overdoing it.
I won’t hide unless all the mist from my heartsick groans envelopes me like fog and conceals me from people’s searching eyes.
We would profane the other dead souls here if we sang the same requiem for her that we sang for them.
I’m happiest of all that I’m yours now, my lord, my king, and you can guide me as you wish.
Well, hello there, Horatio!
What!
Sir, I tell you that we are not.
You threw it at her rudely, and she wants you to take it back.
But can I have some hope?
I don’t like what you’re asking me to do.
I mean, what sort of man is he?
Go back and tell your king I do not seek an encounter with him now but would be willing to march on to Calais without interference, for—to be honest, though it’s probably unwise to confess this to a powerful enemy who has the advantage—my men are considerably weakened by illness, my numbers reduced, and those few men I have almost no better than so many Frenchmen, though when they were in good form, I tell you, herald, I thought three Frenchmen walked on every pair of English legs.
That’s the truth, sir.
Were you here when it started?
But Macbeth is.
I’m going to get my  Please, listen to me.
You’d better go inside.
Whatever you are, thanks for your advice.
You are a fool.—You, niece, prepare to leave.
I’ll never see it.
I am unfit to rule and to be king.
That pretty boy, Claudio?
I don’t know that, once he knows what I know.
Why, what a complicated case this is!
Take him to the surgeons.
Are you still so cruel?
Not very well, but I’ve met him several times.
Did he treat you well when you saw him?
Remember the reward we’re getting when the deed’s done.
I think he’s got the money.
There were many even more memorable feasts.
I said you had a fine wit.
If I’d been a common laborer and hadn’t taken him up on his offer, to hell with me.
Moreover, out of mercy, the Constable urges you to remind your men to make their peace with God and repent, so that their souls may depart sweetly and peacefully from these fields where, poor wretches, their bodies will likely fall and fester.
You’ll  Enough of this.
Oh, Stephano, two men from Naples survived!
The battle on the sea is almost lost.
That’s not good.
He did touch on women a bit, but his body was aching with fever and he talked about the Whore of Babylon.
Oh, Lord, this makes me laugh!
Good riddance!—Close the curtains and leave.—I hope everyone who looks like him will make the same choice.
Is there any news about my husband?
He was in a good mood, and then suddenly he started thinking of Rome.
Yes, I truly think He did great good.
Yes, ma'am.
No one except her maid and a holy hermit.
What kind of man are you?
He’s a lord to a lord and a man to a man.
I’ll tell them that we won’t hurt anyone with our swords, and that Pyramus isn’t really dead.
That’s enough.
And what’s your connection with the traitors who landed in our kingdom recently?
I’ll forbid all ships from leaving our harbors.
I told him what I thought.
Therefore your relatives are no obstacle.
I just speak directly.
Dear father, if you caused this terrible storm with your magic powers, please put an end to it.
Wasn’t that Cassio leaving my wife?
And when that time comes, then you can mock me, but please don’t pity me, because I won’t pity you.  
The devil inside him is rough, but we can’t treat it roughly.
I recognize his walk.
Just listen to him.
Here’s my servant.
The tyrant I’m serving now can go to hell!
Why do you look like a frightened goose?
Damn those men shouting down there!
Aren’t they at this very moment on the western shore helping the rebels land safely from their ships?
The French have reinforced their scattered men.
Take good care of him.
Buck up, boy!
jailer, i’m your prisoner.
You shouldn’t talk about him like that!
Thank you, Tubal.
Look, and you’ll see.  
I’ve been crazed with so many miseries that my tongue has tired of lamenting and gone mute.
It’s all the same.
I don’t know.
Is there more work to do?
But don’t you see what a    Did you hear someone?
Is the king awake, worthy thane?
I’m critical by nature.
Agreed.
The empire may be in danger if he’s not restrained before he reaches his full potential.
I’m satisfied.
I’ll expect you.
But where is he?
That’s true.
What kind of crude jerk are you?
Now he’s saying how she took him into our bedroom.
I think he will stand strong with us.
Here, you there, Grumio.
He’ll never follow anything that other men have started.
What would you like to see?
I’ll have my lessons in the order and manner 
Take off my armor.
Come down.
The pound of flesh that I want from him was very expensive.
You have amazed me.
Do you really think so?
Only three so far?
Many men would take you literally and take off with all this money.
A thing of no importance.
Oh, noble Caesar!
But let me try my luck on the boxes.
Now, you tanned fieldworkers who are so tired of August’s labors, get out of the dirt and come rejoice with us here.
Sir, I think I have the right to speak, and speak I certainly will.
I’ve said nothing wrong.
I have another plan to make my bird come to me and recognize her owner’s call is to keep her from sleeping—
Yes, that’s my husband’s name.
Dinner is over, and we’re going to get there too late.
If we meet again, then we’ll smile.
My old bones are tired.
Is he married?
What’s that noise?
What are you going to tell her, Nurse?
Wait a minute, Jew.
Thank you kindly.
I’m smart enough to find the logs myself without bothering Peter.
Why, so did you.
Did you plan Cassio’s death with him?
Oh,  Master, master, look!
It’s all stopped.
Even though it’s early, there are already a thousand armored soldiers waiting for you at the harbor.
Only the adulterous and abominable Antony abandons you, giving his power to a whore who turns that power against us.
Probably because my cheeks' roses needed rain, which I could easily give them with all the tears in my eyes.
He looks calmer than he did before.
What’s that supposed to mean?
Oh, the man who avenged her could ask anything of me!
Every night I’m awakened by his  Poor dear, goodbye.
You’ve come right on time.
Sir, he told me quite bluntly that he didn’t feel like it.
Please, tell me some of them.
You’re not as close to death as you think you are.
Among the ten thousand the French have lost only sixteen hundred are mercenaries.
The gods know how dearly Caesar loved him!
I don’t know.
I really want to sleep now.
You killed this king, didn’t you?
It never ceases to amaze me the way people ignore the correct, traditional principles and rules of war.
There she is.
Here’s some money for you.
Oh, she tears that letter into a thousand small pieces and berates herself for being so forward as to write a letter to a man she knows would mock her.
I’ll scalp you.
I didn’t hear anything.
And so—?
She’s a remarkable lady, if the rumors are to be believed.
For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar’s angel.
You want me to say what I’m thinking?
And I understand perfectly his sneering reference to my wilder days.
Oh, what a villain I am!
I wish I could believe you that all was well!
We’ll revenge his death.
If grief doesn’t kill me, I’ll find a quicker way to kill myself—even though I think grief will do the job just as well.
I hear that you must marry this count on Thursday, and that nothing can delay it.
I won’t wrong any of my friends, because I don’t have any to mourn for me, and I won’t have wronged the world, because I don’t have anything in the world.
But if you conspired against my position while you were there, I might be interested in the reason for your stay in Egypt.
Observe how Antony takes his defeat and how his attitude influences his actions.
I don’t understand all dat.
I found that handkerchief by accident and gave it to my husband.
Run away, I beg you!
I’m only crazy sometimes.
It was me, no one else.
But tell me.
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness deserves thanks.
Let the ship sail close to the wind.
Go.
Tubal, a wealthy Jew I know, will supply me with the cash.
It’s arranged.
Well hello, my good boy.
This is the perfect place to rehearse.
Tell me if it’s good or bad, and I’ll wait for the details.
I’ll limp after you.
You see me here, gods, a grieving old man, as wretched in his grief as he is in his old age.
He’s a conspirator.
I beg you to let me go.
But please forgive me, darling, for the sake of the vows we made to each other so recently.
Oh, my son, my son!
Over your wounds—which, like speechless mouths, open their red lips, as though to beg me to speak—I predict that a curse will fall upon the bodies of men.
Farewell.
How are you going to live?
There’s going to be a storm.
Yes, but I am insulting myself by thinking this way.
You inhuman dog!
In the meantime, come home with me, and when the time is right I’ll take you to talk to him.
The skin is good for your cracked head.
All this is comforting news.
A love song, a love song.
As you were on land.
By God, your doors were locked and you were shut out.
Agree to swear.
But you’ve seen her and Cassio together.
I’m sorry to find you like this.
Cicero too?
I’m wide awake.
I know the man well.
Consider how poorly this reflects on me.
If you have me, you have me now at my worst; and if you have me, you’ll appreciate me better and better.
And that will save a partridge wing from being eaten, because he’ll be too miserable for dinner.
What’s the matter?
Get rid of your low-class trapping,” she said.
Of what 
Give me a little breathing space, my lord, a little pause to think.
I see you like to make big offers, sir.
Bleed, bleed, poor country!
and patches of righteousness.
Why would you do that, my love?
Good-bye then, until the time I see you dressed in your battle gear, which will suit you both very well.
I can imagine more than I can say—I have more on my mind than words.
This is as rude as it is strange.
If you tell your lady I’m here to speak with her, and bring her out with you when you come back, you might make me more generous.
God, help us not be jealous!
That villain, Romeo.
This is the jester I have met so many times in the forest.
And from now on, when you get hot with me, I’ll assume it’s your mother speaking and leave it at that.      
From Silvius, sir.
We’ll chase ’em into their latrines.
Speaking for myself—and no offense to the general or anyone else—I hope I’m going to heaven.
What’s the reason for this horrible shouting?
But how would you praise a truly good woman, someone who had no reason to worry about what anyone said about her?
For the sake of your father’s memory, make peace.
Their shadows are like a deadly canopy, under which our army lies, ready to die.
Maybe they call me that because I am cheerful.
He’s an important person.
Listen.
You’ll be lord of the island then, and I’ll be your servant.
What, are we playing with interjections?
What, you mean kid actors?
Or was I dreaming?
The noblest men who ever walked on leather have walked on my handiwork.
Make Cassio angry somehow, either by speaking too loud, or insulting his military skills, or however else you want.
Boys, how are you both doing?
Yes, my lord.
He wouldn’t say that.
Tell us what happened today that put Caesar in such a serious mood.
That was a poor unlucky beggar.
I’m off to Venice.
Where is the number of our English dead?
Do your job.
Forever and forever, farewell, Brutus!
Yes, sir, very well—I’m here in your orchard.
She always has to have a light next to her.
That’s not fair.
I’m as good a gentleman as the emperor.
Goodbye, you dumb old spirit.
A constant pain to me!
I’ll tell you this, Constable, my mistress has his own hair.
While we’re walking, you can tell me how I ended up sleeping on the ground with these humans last night.
Now, my sweet lord, you know how much I like you.
Tonight she is shut up in her room, alone with her sadness.
It’s been this way ever since the first government was organized.
What would you like, Laertes?
Shall I tell Caesar what you request from him?
Is that what you’ve heard?
That’s three hours since nine o'clock, but she hasn’t come back.
If you want to cry over my bad luck, I’ll give you my eyes.
I’m a poor man who’s been humbled by many misfortunes.
I’ll give my life for you, just to prove this guy wrong when he says I don’t love you.
I have come to announce that Juno has asked you, Ceres, goddess of the fields and the earth, to leave your rich farms of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and peas, the hills where the
Talk to him.
Well, praise the Lord you’re ugly.
Until her beautiful life’s end.
I’ll come at you with the old proverb
Well, enough about them.—Come here, Catesby.
If you were the noblest of your family, young man, you couldn’t die more honorably.
What about that?
And you haven’t heard any news about her in your letters?
Please pardon our brother Clarence.
Goodness, it’s daylight.
Forgive me, darling Rosalind.
You should always be honest.
Ma'am, my master’s coming.
Isn’t he an honest man?
Tell me what a drunk is like, fool.
My soul and not my child!
Never a moment of peace!
Treat me well.
Monster, I smell like horse piss, which is making my nose pretty upset.
Give me your hand.
He’s fainted!
I don’t think a team of oxen could get them close enough to fight.
That’s a deal.
You’re sick, yet you sneak out of your warm bed and let the humid and disease-infested air make you sicker?
What do the priests say?
Mister Challenger, the princess wants to speak to you.
So get out of here!
He’s serious.
Oh, by this count I’ll be many years older before I see my Romeo again.
Go quickly—hurry—to the castle, for I’ve given orders to have Lear and Cordelia killed.
I’ll send goblins out at night to work their nasty deeds on you.
Sir!
That’s all.
Good evening, good evening.
Please, father, since you’re weak, act like it.
Come on, niece, I’m sure you love him.
Let’s carve him up like a dish fit for the gods, not chop him up like a carcass fit for dogs.
Ah, you sorceress!
I know you know something about how excellent Laertes is—
No, he just gets reality completely wrong.
I hope Antonio repays his loan on time, or he’ll suffer for this.
And request that she come here.
And yesterday the night owl sat hooting and shrieking in the marketplace at noon.
Oh, how brave of you!
Come, lady; you must die in order to live.
I’ve never seen a creature with a human shape who was so eager to destroy a man.
Pull only his name out of his heart and let him go.
Macbeth has come.
Tybalt’s death would be bad enough if that was all.
Have a good morning.
Let’s seek out some shady place where we can sit down alone and cry our hearts out.
He deserves a beautiful wife more than all the other men I’ve ever seen.
I knew him when he listened to nothing but the military drum and fife; now he would rather hear the sweet and refined music of the tabor and pipe.
Yes, those are the best clothes.
Take it easy!
Oh, are you going to leave me so unsatisfied?
Stay here for a moment.
Whatever your highness commands me to do, it is always my duty to do it.
Good idea.
Sweet marjoram.
There is a man who loves you better than your husband could.
Now that the wind is favorable, let’s board the ship.
Thank you very much.
Who are these men?
What three things does drink make a man do?
All these new Christians will make the price of hogs go up.
She disgusts me, the little hussy!
And you,  And how are you liking the shepherd’s life, Master Touchstone?
That can’t happen.
Their hands and faces were all covered with blood.
I followed it here, or I should say it dragged me here.
are you going to let them break me out of jail?
I think it was at sea.
It’s incredible—they didn’t say a word.
Give me my sword.
Don’t mess with me.
He wants to eat the English.
Give it to my wife, and get your money.
Even if you’re not a traitor, you’re going to look like one if you run away.
Listen, I hear them.
Don’t let the Nurse stay with you in your bedroom. 
Good-bye, my lord.
I’ll chop her into pieces.
They sit chatting by the parlor fire.
If the news is good, you’re ruining the sweet news by playing a trick with a sour face like that.
Well, we’ll speak more soon.
Okay, so that’s when he’ll say we stabbed him in his sleep.
As a favor to  I’m delighted.
I’ve never been taught how to make anything.
I’m indebted to you forever.
Or I’ll deliver your insults to his face.
Something’s wrong, the man sounds panicked.
Girls, girls!
But if you have to swear, swear by your wonderful self, which is the god I worship like an idol, and then I’ll believe you.
Oh no, not if you say it right.
How are you, Hamlet?
The adventurous knight will wave around his sword and shield, the lover will be rewarded for his sighs, the crazy character can rant all he wants, the clown will make everybody laugh, and the lady character can say whatever’s on her mind, or I’ll stop the play.
You’ll have to bear with me.
If I had only died an hour before this event I could say I had lived a blessed life.
Honestly, you’re speaking the truth—ever since the fools were  With his mouth full of news.
Also, he’s left you all his walkways—in his private gardens and newly planted orchards—on this side of the Tiber River.
I’ll call for you soon.
Enough, gentlemen.
She’s not talking to me.
Was that the Caius Cassius that I knew?
Now, I’ll begin
Many people faint when they see blood.
Don’t deny to him that you love me.
Give me those flowers.
You’ve described a warm friend who’s cooling off.
I hear someone coming.
What seems sweet to him now will soon turn bitter.
Follow her.
I am nothing but a poor, used fool.
Are you any kind of philosopher yourself, shepherd?
I wish you all the best.
Put your hand on your heart and listen to my advice.
I know him; he wears a lock of hair.
Indeed, I should have asked you before who he was.
Neither can my accomplishments at sea.
If I live to see you get married someday, all my wishes will come true.
It’s not a false gallop, anyway.
I was wrong to her— Do you know how an oyster makes its shell?
I’ll bite my thumb at them.
I never saw him like this before.
Look, you’ve got his wrinkled hands.
I’m the one who fathered those bloodsucking daughters.
Yes, it faded away when the rooster crowed.
She would have died later anyway.
Brother, I’ll go and bring it to you.
Don’t insult my master’s generosity by killing yourself.
How old is she?
Tie up the servant, for he is mad as well.
The man who finds the sweetest rose Will be pricked by it, and by Rosalind.
No trouble, sir.
What, did you cheat on us before we deserved it?
She only appears honorable from the outside.
Sir, we’ll follow as soon as Mark Antony kisses Octavia good-bye.
I want to stay more than I want to go.
Like an invitation.
Are you acting so boldly from hardship or because you despise good manners?
They deserved to keep their heads more than some people who have managed to keep their positions.
He thinks highly of me.
Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord.
Why don’t you go off to church dancing one way, and come home dancing another way?
I’ll bury you in a magnificent grave.
Your magic spell has such an effect on them that if you saw them now, you’d feel sorry for them.
I’m here, here!
I really believe your cousin was falsely accused.
The more fool you for betting on my loyalty.
Whip me, you devils, so I don’t have to look at this heavenly sight!
God has blessed you with a good name.
So, if they die unprepared, the king is no more guilty of their damnation than he was guilty of the earlier crimes they’re finally being punished for.
My name is Proculeius.
It’s just that my wit is very gentlemanly, Margaret, and refuses to hurt a woman.
What will you give us?
Who are you?
Do you want me to lie, madam?
You and I, and honest Casca, we have epilepsy—we’ve fallen.
I think it’s my bad eyesight that’s making me see this horrible vision.
With a hand like this you need to
She dropped it carelessly, and, seizing the opportunity, since I was here, I picked it up.
Let me have your attention for a moment.
I love you so much that I’ll send your soul to heaven very soon—if heaven will accept anything from me, that is.
Why are you doing this?
Maybe it’ll come again.
That’s right.
He refuses, as he is free of vanity and self-serving pride and ascribes all the glory and responsibility for victory to God.
Stop, for God’s sake!
I told him to come back and talk to me in a bit, and he promised he would.
You are very welcome here, sir. 
You can’t see the future.
Was it you that was always plotting to kill him?
I’ve told you.
It’s a lot to ask of a maiden.
Lucius!
Have patience and endure.
Cassio doesn’t know you.
I’ll deliver the message.
Oh, good Demetrius, will you find him for me?
And that would be—?
It never occurred to me to imagine there was anything more to know.
Oh, but there’s one more thing to tell you.
In fact, I consider ambition to be so light and airy that it’s only the shadow of a shadow.
Do you want to hear what she says?
Farewell.
Really, I’ll help.
Killing men in the dark?
Both you and the king might have ordered us to execute your command, instead of asking us so politely.
Mine, too.
Oh, killing that child was the dirtiest, most merciless deed there ever was!
Do you really mean to go after this wildcat?
Is it possible to be wise, bewildered, calm, furious, loyal, and neutral all at once?
Tell her to come to me.
All you English princes, I salute you.
Why, what’s Tybalt’s story?
Come, take away the  Here comes Master Signior Leonato with the sexton.
I’ll answer for everything.
You’re wearing dancing shoes with nimble soles.
The next day I explained all this to him, which was as good as begging his pardon.
Do you understand what I’m saying, man?
I’m putting myself in God’s hands, and with his help I plan to fight against the secret plot that caused this treasonous murder.
You know me too well.
What, aren’t you a Christian?
That’s true, my good boy.—Come on, take us to that hut.
My master is the great and rich Capulet, and if you don’t belong to the house of Montague, please come and drink a cup of wine.
And I hope you realized I wasn’t very happy about it.
What, are you going to mock me to my face when I told you not to?
No rescue for me?
If he’d written nice things, I’d swear yes right away.
Wicked woman, these white hairs you’re pulling off my chin will come to life and accuse you of wrong-doing.
So go ahead and have your terrifying fun.
Let me see you dance. 
Leonato and his brother.
I’ll drain the life out of him.
Don’t ask to see this letter.
I can’t imagine what’s made him so unlike himself, other than his father’s death.
Our masquerade mates are waiting for us.
Well, all of these should be in the lantern, because they’re all in the moon.
And now it looks like you need my help.
So go ahead and cry.
Absolutely—so long as he gets the girl.
Then hear me, gracious sovereign, and all you peers who owe your lives and duty to this imperial throne.
My lord, how are you feeling?
So I won’t choose what many men desire, because I won’t jump on the bandwagon and include myself with the whole crude population.
My heart’s as black as death.
And, being a man of your breeding, you’re going to be married under some shrubs like a beggar?
Madam?
What a fool I’ve been!
What have you done?
You mean you don’t even want to hear my side?
They were lusting after each other.
Who’s shouting?
My love, call him back in here.
Were you dreaming, Lucius?
Ask him to go in.
I don’t think you’ve got much of a reason to love me.
The man who killed Mercutio, which way did he go?
No, sir, I live by the church.
Oh, I’m out of breath from this foolish chase.
But I just can’t love him.
But silence, like a knife, cuts open my heart With strokes that draw no blood.
Good food’s not a big deal—everyone can afford that.
Go after her, go.
Draw your trustworthy sword, which you have used in such service to your country.
Do I mistreat even my enemies?
No, your words are too precious to be wasted on dogs.
Two or three men, my lord, who brought the message that Macduff has fled to England.
Defend yourself!
That’s the deal.
Why do you hide these things?
You won’t be striking me down, but defeating Caesar.
He’s an unremarkable man, fit only to be sent on errands.
I can’t blame her.
All right!” It’s not fine, and I’m not all right!
That’s him, that villain Romeo.
Tell her that the entire East shall call her Queen.” Then he nodded and solemnly mounted an armored warhorse, which neighed so loudly it effectively silenced anything I might have said in reply.
Was it mine?
Stinking like a swamp.
Or come back to life again and challenge me to a duel in some deserted place.
Easy, Petruchio.
Which ones are the malefactors?
Hover about her and tell her she got what she deserved, with her children dead before their time.
Go, take your sweetheart and leave him to me.
Do as I asked you.
I’ll do it right away.
The earth has bubbles, just like the water, and these creatures must have come from a bubble in the earth.
She can stay at her father’s house.
Is that the law?
Tell me why you did it.
It would be better if you actually applied it to your life.
Why are you talking to me like this?
He’ll just think an idiot wrote it.
Who here is so low that he wants to be a slave?
My lord, that dirty clown whom you laughed at so often is also missing.
Or was it a blessing that we came here?
We’ve all come out to see what will happen.—Go, Hercules!
Edward Plantagenet, why are you dead?  
Pardon us, dear father.
No we’re not—it’s night.
Come on, let me wipe your face.
Three-time traitor and whore!
Your whole family will be ruined.
Then you must take the truth I have to tell like a Roman.
Where’s the evidence against me?
Hang there on this tree, you lines of poetry, and bear witness to my love.
Block up my house’s ears—I mean the windows.
No, no, I’m as ugly as a bear, since animals that see me run away in terror.
Fine, but not enough.
My lord, his throat is cut.
And now I’ll do it. 
Amen to that!
Good for you, holding out on me like this!
Choose another tack.
I hear some noise.
You’re not leaving the house today.
I’m not in a joking mood.
From now until then seems like twenty years.
I’ll come soon.
I’ll back you up.
We’ll drive them to a 
Why does it matter that I’m not as lucky or lovable as you are and that the love I feel is unrequited?
Not a bit, madam.
Then why did you travel so quietly?
The father and the master and the king didn’t order their subordinates' deaths when they ordered their services.
Will you come immediately?
Who comes with him?
Yes, but who is he?
Oh, forgive me!
I’ll leave you without revealing any emotion, like a man of steel. 
Your fate awaits you.
No, listen to it, Antony.
Your features, God help us!
I dreamed last night that I feasted with Caesar, and unlucky signs overwhelmed my imagination.
Which of us are you referring to?
Aren’t you dead yet?
It’s better to act virtuously rather than vengefully.
Until Birnam Wood gets up and moves to Dunsinane, I won’t be affected by fear.
Thus, it should be clear as day that King Pepin’s title, Hugh Capet’s claim, and the resolution of King Lewis’s doubts all plainly derive from the female.
Tell him so yourself, and see how he takes the news.
You can hear them all night long.
Fine, but you weren’t harsh enough.
If you really are Sir Rowland’s son, as you’ve just whispered to me—and I can absolutely see the likeness in your face— you are truly welcome here.
Now we can shout, “Congratulations, congratulations, my lord and lady!” My Lord Bassanio, and my dear lady, I wish you all the joy I can wish for.
Look at you, thrashing about like a blind man.
I hope you remember that I said all this because I love you.
A friend should put up with his friend’s weaknesses, but you exaggerate mine.
So order the armies to rest, and let’s go home to share the glories of this happy day.
Come, firebrands, over here!
You pretty lovers are lucky you met me here.
She’s the reason I’m here.
Tranio got you that time.
It wants us to speak to it.
Delighted to hear you ask so nicely, but I won’t stay in any case.
Political business is bothering him, and he’s just taking it out on you.
He can’t speak, my lord.
Your crown is crooked.
Really, he’s very witty, and full of wise sayings.
Where’s your lute?
Here, sir, this is a ring she asked me to give you.
Look, it’s my dear Lady Disdain!
Call in the messengers and we’ll find out.
He will live as a cursed man.
Stand aside, Captain Gower.
Excuse me, sir?
We’re ruined!
Here’s my key.
Who’s Thisbe?
What’s your business?
Go now, Lord Constable and all you princes, and quickly bring us news of England’s defeat.
Run, run, my lord.
I’m my own spokesman.
Their villainy nauseates me, and I must therefore vomit it up.
That wicked Jew got the duke to listen to his complaints.
Get up and tell me how you came here.
But let’s see once more what the gold one says
She’s dead, like a beautiful flower, killed by an unseasonable frost.
Yes, he’ll weep stones, as he taught us to do.
Niece, you are exceptionally perceptive.
That’ll be fine.
Now I’ll offend you whether I give it to you or not.
But don’t do that.
Let me go, I say.
Listen, listen!
Who’s there?
Good morning to you.
Little pitchers have big ears.
And he’s made the holiest vows to me, to back up what he says.
Good old lord Gonzalo,” as you call him, is saddest of all, with tears running down his beard.
Oh, Antony, don’t beg us to kill you.
They did, Fluellen.
Me too.
Oh well, God’s in charge, and some people have to go to heaven, while other people have to go to hell.
It has leaked out that you’re hiding here.
Don’t move, dog.
Time travels at different speeds for different people.
There must be some political news from Venice, or some dangerous plot here in Cyprus has ruined his good mood.
Madam, his majesty asks for you, and for you, Duke of Gloucester, and for you, my noble lords.
It’s even stranger when an angel is so angry.
Finally, after shaking my arm a little, and jerking his head up and down three times, he sighed like it was his last breath.
Wholeheartedly, good young man.
In God’s name, speak.
Now, good sweet Nurse—Oh Lord, why do you look so sad?
Didn’t you just say he was?
Play, I say!
That’s a nice hat you’ve got there.
I know she trusts you and tells you everything.
I’m not sick if you’ve prepared some honorable exploit for me.
What’s your name?
Sure, since beauty’s power can more easily change a good girl into a whore than the power of goodness can change a beautiful girl into a virgin.
It has been done already, and the messenger is on his way.
What an idiot this guy is!—You’re a rotten piece of work!—I beg your highness, beat him up and take his wine bottle from him.
Trinculo, watch out.
I remember.
Come on, come on.
Sa, sa, sa, sa.
By Jupiter, if I were Antony, I wouldn’t shave my beard today.
To the field!
Spirit, did you carry out the storm just as I ordered?
Curse your families!
Scum!
So, in the name of God and all the good that will come of this 
He’s calling us back.
First of all, Pyramus has to take out a sword to kill himself, which the ladies in the audience won’t be able to stand.
I’ll come with you.
Yes, Caesar?
And you told me to bury my love.
Go into the bedroom and see for yourself.
I will either get you out, lying if I have to, or stay in prison in your place.
I’m sure some Christian will resort to trickery to get you.
I think he must have turned into an animal, because I can’t find him anywhere looking like a man.
A thin face, which you don’t have; a sleepless, sunken eye, which you don’t have; an irritable temper, which you don’t have; a neglected beard, which you don’t have—but that might not be so telling, since you don’t have much beard anyway.
Damn it, show me what you’re going to do for her.
In Orsino’s heart.
Good, good, I like that—it’s only fair!
Are you a god, an angel, or a devil, that you make my blood turn cold and my hair stand up?
She is not sick, my lord, but she is troubled with endless visions that keep her from sleeping.
You worthless man!
Such a wonderful father-in-law and wife make this place a paradise.
There’s a lot to learn when a fool recites the words of a madman.
Go, get out!
Not for your entire fairy kingdom.—Come, fairies, let’s go.
As for his thoughts, I wish he’d think about nothing at all rather than think about me all the time.
That’s her father and his friends, who’ve been roused out of bed.
You!
Oh, beautiful and accomplished lady, may the heavens rain odors upon you!
No, he was wicked and vile.
Here, sir!” You stupid, unpolished dolts!
Let me take my chances.
I’ll prove that I’m an honest man and a man of honor if you dare defend yourself.
But what’s the upshot of her admiration?
Okay, I will—on Fridays and Saturdays, and the rest.
We will, my noble lord.
I didn’t write about breaking the alliance with Antony until I saw you were being misled and realized how dangerous it would be to keep postponing preparations.
I swear on my life that I’m speaking the truth.
Losers always leave quickly.
Antonio, you’re under arrest on the orders of Count Orsino.
That’s like hot ice and strange snow.
What’s going on, my love?
I’m left with nothing to do in this weak, idle peacetime, unless I want to look at my lumpy shadow in the sun and sing about 
And if he advances unopposed, my lord, let us abandon France.
Have they come back?
Richard loves Richard, that is, there’s just me and myself here.
And let the wise man run away.
The man that once sold the skin of a lion while the beast still lived died hunting him.
In a king, the sight is unbearable.
I found Orlando under a tree, like a dropped acorn.
What’s that noise?
You and your servant are very funny, sir.
So were their daggers, which we found on their pillows, unwiped.
Good news, good news!
Read it instantly.
I’m sorry I was so wrong about him.
Are you his brother?
I can confirm that all these shocking things are true.
No, I don’t want to send your soul to hell when I kill you.
I have drawn my sword.
I hope with all my heart she will!
Lean forward.
Am I myself?
This is a small house.
Was a man ever as dirty as me?
Who did this to him?
Right now?
You’re making fun of me.
Damn it!
Maybe she was just naked in bed with him for an hour or so, but they didn’t do anything.
Eyes, look out for the last time!
Go on, my loving lord.
Cassio was attacked here in the dark by Roderigo and men who escaped.
That’s a wise idea.
How many times will Caesar bleed again in show, though he now lies at the base of Pompey’s statue, as worthless as dust!
It’s always dangerous when little people get caught in the crossfire of mighty opponents.
She said she wished she hadn’t heard it, but she also wished there was a man like me for her.
But who is this?
No, please, read it like a sane person.
Helena, we’ll tell you about our secret plan.
You have bested many things, well don’t try and best me.
In England this strange monster would be just like a man.
So I’m free.
I’ll help out, if only because he speaks the same language as me.
My ships will come home a month before the money is due.
Is it lost?
Be patient.
Cassio can have my job.
Go on, go on.
Why, do you know of any harm intended toward him?
My spells are working well, my spirits are obeying me, and everything is right on schedule.
No, no, until it comes true we’ll pretend it was just a dream we had.
He who chooses me will get what he deserves.” That’s nicely put—because who’s going to cheat luck and get more than he deserves?
I’ll follow you, my lord.
You don’t think you can teach her?
Mistress, you have to go see your father.
Whichever of you acts shy, I’ll swear she has corns.
We’ll hurry.
Where’s Potpan?
I wouldn’t stay here tonight for the entire town.
No, not at all.
But no more spooky visions!—Where are the messengers?
Please answer, my good little student.
I have an aunt who is a widow, who’s very rich and doesn’t have any children.
This is how the candle burned the moth.
But didn’t you expect us to cut the cloth?
I didn’t think I would see you here.
I think someone’s coming from Venice.
I wouldn’t even pee without dancing a waltz.
Swear your love for each other.
That’s what I thought too, sir.
Farewell, good Strato.
But let’s stop this drinking and get down to business.—God forgive our sins!—Gentlemen, let’s get down to business.
But I agree, sir, that we were locked out.
Oh, I’m talking too loud.—Where’s Malvolio?
Poor lady, she’ll go crazy when she sees it’s missing.
Please Margaret, help me write this poem for Beatrice.
A person can only pay with their life once, and she has paid in full.
She’s gone forever.
I’m telling you, your husband.
Let’s follow him.
Why has your queen, Juno, called me here to this grassy spot?
Tell me that.
As far as I know, sir.
For my part, I’m sorry this battle turned into a drinking match.
Let me lick your shoe.
I’m going on alone.
He’s given me a second life, and marrying her makes him a second father to me.
Oh God, remember to hear her prayer for them, just as for us!
Doesn’t it look like the king?
Maybe it’s a parade to welcome us to town, master.
My name is Thidias.
To get my poor, mad husband out from inside there.
I never offended him at all.
The war’s over and the Turks are drowned.
Just tell me what you want me to do, and however hard it is, you’ll see that I’m eager to do it.
Not one, my lord.
Now heaven has her.
Is the snake better than the eel because the pattern on his back pleases the eye?
Wait, sweet Beatrice.
I’ll walk around and force the commoners off the streets.
My dear lord, tell me what’s bothering you.
Very good, sir.
Have you written that letter to my sister yet?
Well, to wear out their shoes and get myself more work.
Is that called for in the contract?
Oh God, whose side I think I’m fighting on, look kindly on my forces.
That’s the beginning of the day we see, but I don’t think we’ll see the end of it.—Who goes there?
It’s not good for your health, either.
Why, a bad action is just a wrong in this world, but when you’ve won the whole world, it’s a wrong in your own world, so you can make it right then.
Ha, ha, ha!
But will I wear these honors for only a day or will I enjoy them for a long time?
I wish you’d won the  Something bad in that letter is making Bassanio turn pale.
You who are wicked beyond belief, the only “explanation” I’ll accept from you is for you to hang yourself.
There’s a fool sharing my bed now.
Here.
Well, that’s certainly out of this world, all right.
What do you have to tell me?
My lord, the mayor of London is here to greet you.
Come with me to see the duchess.
Don’t compare a woman’s love for a man with my love for Olivia.
Are you always so funny?
Let me embrace you.
I won’t follow him around with useless pleas anymore.
Draw your sword and get on your toes, because your assailant is quick, skillful, and deadly.
And if he doesn’t deserve this joy on earth, he’ll never deserve it in heaven.
I await justice.
Yes, heavily.
Is my ink and paper ready?
Please, who?
Two hundred ducats.
That guy’s funny.
My name is Edgar, and I’m your father’s son.
Kind Tyrrel, will your news make me happy?
Besides, they’re fresh.
Where should I go?
There are enemies here.
But, my lord, this boy was born in the forest and has been schooled not in the usual subjects but only in magic.
This man said, sir, that Don John, the Prince’s brother, was a villain.
How can you ever hope for mercy for yourself, when you don’t give any now?
Then be so kind as to show them in.
I’ll give it to him.
I didn’t give her any ring.
Your son Edward, who stabbed my son Edward, is dead.
If her breath were as terrible as her words, she would kill every living thing from here to the furthest star.
I tricked your own eyes.
I’ll fix you, I swear.
Yes, even if I die an hour later.
The next day we had our fight at sea, and you know what happened after that.
Picture the cabin boys climbing around the rigging.
Revenge!
Had the gods taken pity on us, I wouldn’t be here calling them merciless.
Now he’s ready for 
But brother Anthony— Don’t, it’s no big deal.
Your behavior is an insult to all women.
You’ll fight with a man who’s cracking nuts just because you have hazelnut-colored eyes.
I hear him.
The dirt of a grave must cover your sweet eyes!
O flesh, flesh, you’ve turned pale and weak like a fish.
Listen to me, because I’m older than you, surely.
Who’s that at the gate, uncle?
And you’re all sizzle.
But it’s no treason for an Englishman to cut off a French crown—a head, I mean—and tomorrow the king himself will do some snipping.
I’m sorry, but I memorized what I’m supposed to say here today, and that question isn’t part of the speech I learned.
You mean I should groan and tell you?
You haven’t said anything against the Duke of Cornwall, have you?
Actually, an old religious uncle of mine taught me how to speak, and he was brought up in the city.
All that glitters is not gold— You’ve often heard that said.
We both have eaten as well, and we can both endure the cold winter as well as he.
The less they deserve, the more your generosity is worth.
You must not go without having a drink first.
Sir John Falstaff.
Come and get it!
I’m no ordinary fairy.
Have you forgotten the horrid witch Sycorax, stooped over with old age and ill will?
Convince him that he has been out of his mind—and when he says he’s out of his mind  My lord, I promise we will play our parts so skillfully that he will believe everything we tell him.
So I won’t give or risk anything for lead.
Pardon me, but I’m just repeating what you yourself have said.
The lowest part of his hoof is more musical than Pan’s pipe.
Your fortunes are the same.
But it was also prophesied that the crown would not go to your descendants, and that my sons and grandsons would be kings instead.
Macbeth!
The enemy approaches with great display.
In every good thing they do.
He just said that they’re no good at acting.
Which speech, my lord?
Just as a town protected by a wall around it is worth more than a low-lying village, a married man’s horned forehead is more honorable than a bachelor’s bare forehead.
The best thing about me is that I’m hardworking.
Another thing, Domitius
Tell me, my daughter Juliet, what is your attitude about getting married?
To leave his wife, his children, his house, and his titles in a place so unsafe that he himself flees it!
I say my prayers out loud.
I stretch my joke for that word “fat.” If you add that word to the word “goose,” it shows that you are a fat goose.
I wish I were, so I could deprive you of both day and life.
England would be lucky to have this virtuous prince as king.
My falcon is now hungry and unfed and must not be given enough to eat until she comes to me, for if her hunger is satisfied, she’ll pay no attention to the bait.
Think like this all day, and you’ll learn how to curse.
Don’t saints and pilgrims have lips too?
The groans you used to make are still ringing in my old ears.
These cowards manage to make fools of brave men.
Only children are afraid of scary pictures.
What must be will be.
What can you swear by now?
Curse my hand if it ever threatened an old man like you.
And there’s another storm brewing—I can hear it in the way the wind whistles.
Quiet!
Come, father, I’ll leave you at a friend’s house.
This storm has no pity for either wise men or fools.
Then patiently listen to my impatience.
May God be at your table.
Are you always going to be like this?
She and Susan—God rest her and all Christian souls—were born on the same day.
Very much so.
And I’m telling you it was burnt and dried out.
If it were nothing, you wouldn’t need to hide it.
While he and I are at one, my loyal servant Catesby will be at the other, so nothing will happen that we won’t find out about.
She sees you with the eyes my daughter lent her, it’s true.
Me too—otherwise I would have had to duel with Claudio.
I’ll go to the hole to see if I can hear my Thisbe’s face.
You’re so much older than you look!
Listen to me, good Shylock.
Only an hour ago it was nine, and in another hour it will be eleven.
My father, led by a poor peasant?
Die where you have lived, in my arms.
Here’s a drink.
Let’s lay everything upon the king
If its juice is put on someone’s eyelids while they’re asleep, that person will fall in love with the next living creature he or she sees.
Give me some applause, if we’re friends, and Robin will make everything up to you.
Can’t you somehow use your dissatisfaction to your own advantage?
Give me my robe, because I’m going.
May the gods be with you.
You flea, you louse, you winter cricket!
Go ask.
And listen!
If he were dead, you’d be weeping for him.
Yes, I found him when he was asleep—so that’s taken care of too—and the Athenian woman was sleeping near him.
I’m very sick, too.
But
M”—why, that’s the first letter in my name.
Come like shadows and depart in the same way!
Do as I say.
Even if I had sworn never to marry, I wouldn’t trust myself to keep that promise if Hero would marry me.
Prepare the horses for your lady.
We’re very sorry, sir, that you may not live to wear us out with your commands.
A friend?
The warships have sent a dozen messages tonight, one after the other, and many of the senators have been awakened and are at the Duke’s already.
Very impressive.
I’ll wait for you in your cave, where you can tell me what you need from me.
Antony would easily outshine all imaginary beings.
My lord, they’re waiting for you to give your daughter away to Claudio.
Thankfully, we have reason to cool our raging lusts.
But how strange that Beatrice should seem to know who I was and yet not know at the same time.
Oh, what evil!
You’re cold, cold, and you were never hot with lust.
If it pleases you, your highness, why don’t you sit with us and grace us with your royal company?
know myself!
How are you, sir?
As soon as the deed is done, you will be in my favor and I will promote you.
I did, kind lady.
How is lieutenant Cassio?
I would rather be a country serving maid than a great queen if it meant I could escape your scorn and constant harassment.
Let’s have one, good soldier.
Won’t the dawn come from here?
We mean well by going to this masquerade ball, but it’s not smart of us to go.
Let’s see.
I do.
She was so young, but she deceived her father so thoroughly he thought it was witchcraft!
Is the duke of Exeter safe?
That’s what he said.
Pain, yes indeed.
I’ll put her on that.
I’ll write to my sister and tell her my plans.
But sir— Be quiet, Kent.
I don’t know what you mean, madam.
Can you imagine cement and stone talking better?
I can be discreet in honorable matters, ride a horse, run, tell a good story badly, and deliver a plain message bluntly.
Come on, sweet Audrey.
Rise, princes, and, with a spirit of honor more sharply edged than your swords, rush to the battlefield
They vanished strangely.
They’re forgiven, then, if they don’t see what they’re doing.
Is there anything offensive in it?
In short, when I told him how firmly opposed I was to his hideous plan, he pulled out his sword and lunged at my defenseless body, cutting my arm.
Give me a torch.
What have I ever done that he has anything to complain about?
Sometimes she tickles a priest’s nose with a  Enough, enough!
What?
This isn’t a good moment for jokes—save them till a happier time.
Why are you looking at me so strangely?
Here he comes with Captain Jamy, the Scots captain.
It’s a good thing you’re not a piece of fish.
Doesn’t a Jew eat the same food, get hurt with the same weapons, get sick with the same diseases, get healed by the same medicine, and warm up in summer and cool off in winter just like a Christian?
There must be some resolution.
No, you have to swear it.
Yes, I swear.
What does it matter?
Take this mad wretch to jail.—Father-in-law Baptista, will you see that he’s available to appear in court?
While he was still in Rome, he deployed his forces in so many different disguises that all our spies were fooled.
You won’t kill me, will you?
Isn’t today the day when Hermia has to tell us her decision about whether she’ll marry Demetrius?
How are you doing, Stephano?
I nursed her daughter, whom you were just talking to.
I’ll go get Beatrice for you, who can walk here by herself—she has legs.
Go take them back and smear the sleeping guards with the blood.
May I kiss your feet?
They keep up Adam’s profession.
But Angelo, you’ll pay for this, even if it costs all the precious metals in your jewelry shop.
Lay out the gown.
Who’s there?
Call Cleopatra what the Romans call her.
Bathe his filthy head with warm, scented water.
And my heart too.
Terrible.
Tell her my love is purer than anything else in the whole world, and has nothing to do with her property.
I don’t think so!
Have you heard this, Cassio?
And you’ve done well on land.
And so will I.
I know how to tell when someone is alive or dead.
Titinius is lying face-up.
Where’s lady Portia?
No, you entertain your suitors with mild and gentle conversation, quiet and pleasant.
No, if they try to lead us to harm, I will leave the dance floor at the next song.  
Let me say “amen” quickly, before the devil comes in and stops my prayer—because here comes the devil, disguised as a Jew.
But did you listen to all that poetry without even wondering about what your name is doing on all these trees?
No, because we shouldn’t be doing that—stuff.
Good morning to you, friend.
No, not tonight.
By our beards (if we had them), you are a knave.
Now let my courage prove my title as wife.
The honest men.
Oh, how I love you!
No, Kate?
A basting.
Hey out there!
Some achieve greatness—” What are you saying?
But he has to make his speeches of love to a woman who’s supposed to be his enemy.
This storm protects me from thoughts that would hurt me more.
Pray God your wife doesn’t send you a worse one.
I was an idiot to take it!
As long as you move gracefully, look handsome, and say nothing, I’m yours for the dance.
You’re a fool.
Good-bye.
I’ll try to make myself worth your knowledge.
But why did you tempt the heavens like that?
You’ve done well at sea.
Then let’s go in and hear what he has to say—though I think I can guess before the Frenchman has uttered a word.
It probably has something to do with… I don’t know.
where we quietly buried you, has opened up its heavy marble jaws to spit you out again.
If her eyes were in the night sky, they would shine so brightly through space that birds would start singing, thinking her light was the light of day.
I’m happy to say “amen” to that!
But how long will her beautiful life last?
Murder, murder!
How  What, are you jealous, Oberon?—Fairies, let’s get out of here.
I hope your Majesty will, in all good conscience, bear me out and vouch for the fact that this is the glove of Alençon and that your Majesty gave it to me.
I didn’t say free, madam.
Meanwhile, we’re the ones who need you.
We argued about which was best, and now we won’t get either one.
When the actors were talking about poison?
Three of the carriages are very imaginatively designed, and they match the fencing accessories.
He’s starving me to death.
Blow the trumpet!
Yes, what time is it?
What other rites are you going to give her?
I am indebted to you for your last sermon.
I wish you could tell him I saved his brother.
Prepare your troops.
Why, what’s the danger?
Iras, I won’t see you again for a long time.
Let’s go.
Why, to keep the eyes on the sides, so that you can see anything that you can’t sniff out.
A very nasty meaning.
I’m not sure about that.
I’m completely lost.
Yes, by God, that it is.
Tell me, who had him arrested?
Hail!
Lepidus flatters both of them, as they flatter him, but he doesn’t love them, and they don’t love him.
Edmund, you deserve me to be your woman.
You were right the first time.
Claudio!
I saw you at Count Orsino’s recently.
Come on, you’re being too hard on yourself.
These are bad omens, but I hope, I hope, they don’t predict my future.
Cassio’s killed a young Venetian named Roderigo.
You can hope your father isn’t your real father.
That’s the point.
My plans take me a roundabout way.
Lord, what fools these mortals are!
Because, you know, Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight.
You’re using this as an excuse for not showing up at the Porcupine like you promised.
It’s over here.
I just meant that our hearts are joined, so we can almost think of them as one heart.
Stop, Sir Toby!
He was a great human being.
Oh, don’t worry about it—we’ll dip your    I’ll get you for that one.
Put out the light of the candle, and then put out the light of her heart.
Only really cruel people can be called deformed.
Your renowned uncle, Duke Menaphon, the famous soldier, brought me here.
If you happen to see Horatio and Marcellus, who are supposed to stand guard with me tonight, tell them to hurry.
He’s the only worthy man in Italy, aside from my dear Claudio.
Ha, ha, ha!
Don’t you know me still?
And I’ll tell him about the letter too.
Yes, he is dead.
Ha ha, are you good?
Don’t dishonor your mothers!
What’s that?
Yes, I do, lady.
May you only give birth to male children, because your fearless spirit should create nothing that isn’t masculine.
You’re taking a shorter route.
You’ll be my witness that I’ve been forced, as Pompey was, to wager all of our freedoms on one battle.
All right then, legitimate brother Edgar, I have to have your lands.
If I could shoot lightning bolts from my eyes, I can tell you who’d be on the ground.
I know what you’d do.
I’ve sent twenty people to look for you.
No?
Gower is a good captain, and is well versed and well read in the wars.
It’s not true because she separates us.
If we were in front of our armies, about to fight, I would do this.
Claudio, take my daughter, and, with her, take my fortunes.
Alright, I will.
I wish she’d never let you come.
I don’t know what you mean by that, but I’m sure Caesar fell down.
Please remember, love.
Do you love me?
They said they were acting for you.
I’ve got nothing to do with you.
Who takes care of them?
His words are like poison to me.
But people often screw things up trying to make them better.
Is there a murderer here?
Armed forces have already landed.
How did he look?
If true lovers are always thwarted, then it must be a rule of fate.
Come, come, you are too clever for your own good.
What money, sir?
Lurk out of sight.
Do you think it would work?
I want my bond.
And then throw the seeds in the sea, to make more islands grow.
In Algiers, sir.
Don’t simply hide your hatred.
Don’t tug on my clothes.
Open it and read it.
You don’t need it yet.
Good advice, indeed.
Give him your arm.
Fierce civil war will paralyze all of Italy.
How are my old friends from this island doing?—Honey, they’ll love you here in Cyprus.
May a hot southwest wind blow on you and cover you with blisters all over.
What are you reading, teacher?
But in that “no hope” there are great hopes for you!
Who does it stand still for?
He’d be quite a monster if his eyes were in his tail.
So what’s the story, old boy?
His legs aren’t great, but they’re alright.
Have you not spoken to her since then?
Excuse me.
It would be just like a nice daydream or fantasy.
I’ll beat him until the welts look like basket-weave!
Why would you be so foolish as to beat the moody duke’s favorite champion?
What do you mean, the seventh cause?
Arm yourself.
I’d never do such a bad thing, not for the whole world!
Well, well, let’s go.
Not if you want to keep your arms!
Yes she has, and by keeping celibate, she wastes her beauty.
Listen to me.
Oh, what a horrible day!
Hastings and Edward’s children, Rivers and Grey, holy King Henry and your fine son Edward, Vaughan, and all who have died from underhanded, corrupt, fiendish injustice, if your angry souls are witnessing this moment through the clouds, enjoy the revenge—laugh at my ruin!
Her worth is carried on the wind And it blows throughout the world, carrying the name of Rosalind.
Therefore it’s certain that he wasn’t ambitious.
Yes, exactly.
That’s the consideration that makes us stretch out our sufferings so long.
Your wit is so forceful, it frightens the very meaning out of your words.
Tyrant, show your face!
You need not kneel to me.
Fill my cup, Lucius, until the wine overflows it.
Yes, madam.
But he’d been there before me, and they told me he’d gone out looking for me.
I think that’s strange.
All right then, back home we go.
CASSIO  She’s awake, sir.
You’ve shut me up in a dark room and given your drunken cousin authority over me, but I’m as sane as you are.
And I swear to God he’s very smart.
That huge black cloud over there looks like a filthy liquor jug that’s about to pour out its contents.
I’ll let you know my answer shortly.
You don’t wish we had more help from England anymore, cousin?
Antony” was divided between her heart and lips.
Gloucester, Gloucester, I want to speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
I’m begging you, tell me who it is quickly, and speak fast.
Do as I tell you.
The storm has begun and everything is at stake.
All hail, Macbeth!
But who would dare tell her?
Give me my armor.
I’d rather kill myself.
Go to hell, you whore!
When Duke Frederick heard that great, worthy men were coming to this forest every day, he raised a large army to invade this land and fight his brother.
With who?
Has Romeo been killed, and is Tybalt dead too?
I need a doctor.
I had business that made me late.
What can possibly fix this situation?
If I were you with eyes and a tongue to speak with, I’d crack heaven wide open with my laments!
That’s because you are near me, and you’re as dazzling as the sun.
Where are you coming from?
Two or three more lords and ladies have been married too.
Nobody delivered it, my lord.
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth, unfit for toil and trouble in the world, if not so that our soft qualities and our hearts should agree with our external parts?
Please tell me, who is this man?
Indeed, the French can bet twenty French crowns to one that they’ll beat us, they have such an army.
Anyway, Jessica, go inside.
Get to it, be lustful, sleep around—I need soldiers for my army.
What’s up, mister?
We have lost a major portion of the world through utter foolishness.
He’s dead.
Calm down.
You’re a traveler.
I don’t care if all the devils in hell crammed together to possess him, I still want to speak to him.
Hurry, go up to the roof.
You can see for yourself.
Nurse?
He who is dizzy thinks the world is spinning.
What do you say, James  Well, I don’t know what to say.
Isn’t it a pain that I can’t choose or refuse anyone, Nerissa?
Hello, sir.
No, absolutely not.
Don’t you realize the duke has also banished me, his daughter?
Clarence is still alive; Edward is not only alive, he’s king.
I do think Scotland is sinking under Macbeth’s oppression.
I can arrange it so that at some indecent hour of the night, she looks out Hero’s bedroom window.
No, vain illusion, so intricately bound up with a king’s rest.
Wasn’t it just yesterday that we spoke to each other?
I tell you, there are good men born at Monmouth.
I’ve been practicing fencing constantly since he went off to France.
Help!
Twelve years ago, Miranda, twelve years ago your father was the Duke of Milan, a powerful prince.
Come on, good fellow, help me into that armor you’re carrying.
No, it would be impossible.
I have to admit that when I saw his suicide during rehearsal, I had tears in my eyes—but they were tears of laughter.
It was a rough night.
But it’s enough.
I felt like skipping school, sir.
When they’re endangered, I save them.
I find you quite gentle.
No.
By this token, you’ll be admitted to their cell.
Who offered him the crown?
What, just because they kissed in private?
There, take my fool’s cap.
And your lies caused this murder.
I will accept no apology until experts in matters of honor show me how to make peace with you without staining my own reputation in doing so.
So take your last breath.
No, gentle madam.
Oh, I’m such a coward for living long enough to see my best friend taken before my eyes!
You’re older than me.
Even though half of him is like a 
Don’t worry.
I’ve got to go.
Who’s been with her?
Let Caesar do whatever he wants.
Hope with good cause is swift; it flies as fast as a swallow.
Time will tell what you’ve got up your sleeve.
But, my good lord, the words of you and Lord Buckingham are as trustworthy to me as if I had seen and heard him speak myself.
For, as I am a soldier, the name I think suits me best, once I begin my attack on Harfleur again, I will not leave the half-conquered town until she lies buried in her own ashes.
You’ve wronged Caius Ligarius.
The games are done and Caesar is returning.
I need to get Othello’s things from the ship.
I can make my handwriting look just like Lady Olivia’s
Hortensio and I have given you up.
From head to toe?
This news is absolutely true
Well there, now you’ve said it.
Alright, here’s the vial.
I thank you all for your trouble and courtesy.
Ever since you lost yours.
By this sword, I will.
If he looks serious, he must need money.
She was too attached to her filthy marriage ever to do a thing like that!
You wrong me, Brutus.
Goodbye.
Come here, man.
If it pleases your Majesty, it is the token of a man I must fight with, if he’s still alive.
By Jesus, I am your Majesty’s countryman, and I don’t care who knows it.
But sir, there is no such house, no such maid, and no such men as you have dreamed up, like a certain Stephen Sly and one old John Naps of Greece, a Peter Turph, one “Henry Pimpernell,” and twenty more men of this sort—who never actually existed.
Watch out, Ophelia.
Things are what they are.
What work can you do?
I know that my hour has come.
I’m going to rest my head on this little slope.
He’d better not speak badly of Brutus here.
To the breach, to the breach!
I tell you, they are not honest men.
There will be no lecture.
He’s not sleeping to fatten up his lazy body, but praying, to nourish his attentive soul.
It’s hard to see clearly in the dark of night, but it’s easier to hear well. 
What do you say?
Banquo!
I will, my Hermia.
If I live through this, I’ll be good to you.
Come on, let’s go inside.
Look, here he comes.
The note is a big fat liar if it says I said so.  
Don’t let him leave out the color of her hair.
Are you considering desertion, as well?
But by the grace of God, she’s mine.
I’ll send a man to Mantua, where that exiled rogue is living.
His insane period is over.
But I don’t worry about being deceived because I don’t need to trust.
No, don’t be ashamed, Cleopatra.
I would not.
Just as hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, mutts, shaggy lapdogs, swimming dogs, and wolf-dog crossbreeds are all dogs.
Look, the precious Desdemona has arrived on shore.
Do you carry a pike?
Bring me his answers quickly.
What!
Madam, what should I do?
Let the world collapse around us.
I hate your logic as much as I hate an empty drinking cup.
Good.
I come to ask you out of charity to let us wander over this bloody field to record the numbers of our dead and bury them, separating our nobles from the common men, for many of our princes—alas!—lie drowned and soaked in the blood of mercenary soldiers.
As dumb as dirt!
Spring, summer, fertile autumn and angry winter have all changed places, and now the confused world doesn’t know which is which.
And aren’t you a Montague?
If I died right now I’d be completely happy, since I’ll probably never be as happy as this again in my life.
She’s crying.
I know my medicine will work on him.
Speak.
And if she starts to drop off, I’ll rant and yell until I wake her up.
Yes, if the devil tempts you to do good.
That sound you heard was the  It was the lark, the bird that sings at dawn, not the nightingale.
Oh, noise?
Launcelot and I can’t agree on anything.
You won’t lose any respect.
My brains are injured.
I am satisfied, as long as the maiden cities you talk of come with her.
You’re acting stupid, Casca, and you lack the quick wits that a Roman should have—or else you don’t use them.
Oh, my handsome nephew, I must not say that.
If he’s been killed, say “Yes.” If not, say “No.” These short words will determine my joy or my pain.
I’m so amazed by this, I don’t know what to say.
Are you hurt, lieutenant?
What crimes have you committed to be sent here to this prison?
No lie—she screamed at you.
Everyone, please leave us alone for a moment.
I don’t want to be cured, boy.
I am willing to fight you if I must.
Actually, I’d like a few pounds of grass.
I haven’t seen you since you sent me to the Centaur with the gold you gave me.
I wish the night were here already!
No.
Where is our entertainment director?
Look, he’s recovering.
Even if she’s ugly, she’ll be smart enough to find a guy to sleep with her.
Good news, friends.
Join your witchcraft with your beauty, and let Antony’s lust combine with both.
You can see how it is all around.
Yes, but that makes me love you even more.
Thanks, Guildenstern and worthy Rosencrantz.
But even so, we can’t do without him.
Do that.
Who was that?
Come on, noble captain.
All I have to do is remove it.
Believe me, I’m not.
Ask your daughters for another one.
I can suck sadness out of a song the way a weasel sucks eggs.
Oh, she’s slow!
The tragic actors from the city, the ones you used to enjoy so much.
Come here, boy.
In my desperate situation, I have to act alone.
This’ll be a wonderful kingdom to live in, where they play music for free.
Let’s go to him.
The air is sweet and appeals to my refined senses.
Yet I wish I could take that promise back, so I had it to give again.
Don’t worry about me.
And there’s no need for wonder or worry.
Armed, sir.
Then why did you have to stick it in your pocket in such a hurry?
I took your hands in friendship, but, indeed, I was distracted when I looked down at Caesar.
I don’t want anything more.
Dromio?
If people take what he says, fine.
Greet the king with a welcoming expression in your eyes, your hands, and your words.
Do you have anything else to say?
Do you want my true opinion?
Please, try to act a little more serious, or the people in Belmont will get the wrong impression about me, and your wildness will make me blow my chance with Portia.
I know him to be valiant.
If you would have such a man, take me.
Oh, I can buy twenty husbands at any market.
Taurus!
That’s why the King of France listened to my pleas and tears.
Yes, I know her age down to the hour.
I’ll forget that I have any home besides this spot right here.
Count how many times the clock chimes.
Don’t worry about me.—Your sister and the duke are here.
What news do you bring?
I guess you don’t want it.
No man born from a woman will ever defeat you.” So get out of here, disloyal thanes, and join the weak and decadent English!
Why didn’t I just adopt a beggar’s child left at my doorstep, whose shame and dishonor I could have denied, not being its true father?
What havoc have you wreaked in this part of the forest?
How goes the battle?
Oh, that splendid Caesar!
It was two o'clock when I left him, and now it’s one.
The partygoers have arrived.
It’s expressly against the rules of combat.
Horatio, you’re the best man I’ve ever known.
He’s getting worse and worse.
What do you say, Signior Gremio?
Why do you need even one?
I’m happy the Dauphin has such a good sense of humor.
In the mud.
Oh, my son, what issue is that?
Right now we’re shaken up by fears and doubts.
I can tell that you don’t know who I am.
Hold on a moment, and listen to my advice.
They’re just flattering me.
And you, good farmers, whose limbs were made in England, show us here the vigor of your upbringing.
You think she gave it to Cassio?
Portia, goodbye to you.
Like a good doctor.  
I told you before, and I’ll tell you again and again
More, please, more.
And just for today, Oh, Lord, just today don’t think of the crime my father committed in seizing the crown!
I remember your eyes quite well.
My eyes itch—is that an omen I’ll be crying soon?
We don’t come here with the intention of making you happy.
The weakest fruit drops to the ground first, so let me drop.
The  Right.
You haven’t forgotten the half of a kingdom I gave you.
I wonder that none of you thought about getting his support.
Orlando sends his regards to you both, and he sends this bloody handkerchief to the boy he calls “his Rosalind.” Is that you?
As long as there are 
How are you, my lord?
As the sonnet says, “If you please one special person, you please everyone who matters.” Why, what’s going on?
And this is Metellus Cimber.
Now I’ve paid you back, Parthia, and gotten revenge for Marcus Crassus’ death.
I still have room for six more wounds.
Ratcliffe!
Curse the day!
Wish I could say the same.
Why would they do that, my lord?
I am an ass, indeed
Be quick for a while and let the one who lives the longest take everything.
So why did you laugh when I said that men don’t interest me?
Who’s coming?
So, what hour of comfort have I ever had in your company?
You mean, to bear me, not to bear        My protector, Richard, insists on it.
But where have you been?
Now this joke has turned serious.
She says you’re going to marry her.
You mean a devil!
I would rather wrong the dead, and wrong myself and you, than wrong such honorable men.
I won’t live long enough, and all my efforts will fail me.
If her breath steams up the glass, then she’s alive.
If you go outside, arm yourself.
Or, if he wrote down his thoughts, give me his letter.
Quiet!
Please, give my regards to your mother, Mrs. Peapod, and your father, Mr. Peapod.
Yes, you’re right.
I’m suddenly afraid.
Who does it gallop for?
An era of universal peace is about to start.
That’s too long.—Servants, leave her and me alone.
What’s that noise?
Well, I’m glad that everything has been sorted out.
Grandmother, this would have been a biting joke.
You mean however they dare.
I, Wall, have done my part.
My boy, it’s true.
To get what you want, you need to get Cassio out of the way.
Richard has set boundaries between my love and theirs?
We need a calendar!
Who are you?
There’s still the King of France’s farewell ceremony.
He’s got my vote as I die.
I swear I’ll smack you if you hit me again.
This news will comfort Cassius.
I led them on in this frightened, distracted state, and left sweet
This sunken-eyed hag was brought here pregnant and left by the sailors.
A good fool.
It’s impossible.
Look, my cousin is whispering to Claudio that she loves him.
Because we were unprepared for the king’s visit, we weren’t able to entertain him as well as we would have wanted to. 
I swear I will never break this promise of love.
My Cesario?
Where’s my notebook?—It’s a good idea for me to write down that one can smile and smile, and be a villain.
I’m a gentleman.
My royal kinsman, are you teaching our princess English?
I think he got his jacket in Italy, his tights in France, his hat in Germany, and his behavior everywhere.
It has come again.
I’ll do my best to make this lady love you.
Our enemies have driven us to the edge of the grave.
You may really be honest, no matter what I think.
All is lost!
Heaven knows you’re as unfaithful as hell.
I will not trade my horse for any that walks on four legs.
What he just said to me—it’s alright.
That’s true.
Wasn’t that letter from Jessica?
What a spoiled little brat.
Go bring them here.
I want to hear more about this.
You may, Mark Antony.
That’s it—I’m done.
It’s time to put our armor on.
Where’s my father?
My ear must pull it out.
My heart feels like it’s about to explode.
Go wherever you want.
He got there too late.
If that’s what you want, all right.
But why am I telling you this?
This will make them both so afraid that they’ll kill each other just by looking at each other.
I thought your heart had been wounded by a lion’s claws.
As a friend.
Carry him to my best room—gently, so he doesn’t wake—and hang all my erotic paintings around him.
Come on, I’ll escort you to dinner.
Should we now dirty our fingers with lowly bribes and sell the mighty offices that we hold for whatever money we can get our hands on?
Don’t look so sour.
And he’s not going to do any tomorrow.
Meanwhile, I’ll think of some horrible way to phrase the challenge.
He’s wearing yellow stockings.
I would’ve given it to you this morning, but a madman’s letters aren’t Gospel, so it doesn’t matter much if I’m a bit late.
Go blabber with your gossiping friends.
You hit my servants, and your disorderly mob of knights treat their superiors like servants.
And let no one suffer for this deed except us, the perpetrators.
Welcome, my good Alexas.
Jesus, let’s kill him!
I shouldn’t make you do more than you’re able.
Let’s go!
We’re not saying anything treasonous, man.
It was not Caesar’s bravery that conquered Antony but Antony’s that has triumphed over himself.
Don’t let the Danish king’s bed be a nest of incest.
On my knee, I humbly ask your blessing.
Oh, Caesar, this Charmian lived until a moment ago.
Oh, don’t injure your cousin like that!
Go back with her?
So there’s a rift between Othello and Cassio?
The demon who seduced you could stride the world over with the proud gait of a lion, could return to hell and tell the devil’s legions, “I will never win another soul as easily as I won that Englishman’s.” How you have poisoned my faith in people!
The clock struck three.
Well, it certainly wasn’t true for Richard!
Listen, because Tybalt was just killed, people might think that we don’t care about his memory as our relative if we have too grand a party.
I beg your pardon—I thought it was me whom you were calling all those terrible names.
I hate to say it, but it’s almost two and we won’t get there before suppertime.
Keep your money.
Clarence has arrived—lying, cowardly  I’m not surprised it scared you, my lord.
Will you have dinner with me tonight, Casca?
Well, call them back again.
Will he tell us what that pantomime meant?
Do you want to know who they are, then?
The two of us together will sing like birds in a cage.
That he had sex with you.
Let me see, let me see.
Well, you have given me great comfort.
Welcome, my lord.
The moment they planned to act is almost here.
Indeed, she gives a very good testimony of the snake’s power.
I’m sorry I hit you.
No woman’s heart is big enough to hold all my love.
Did he lose his other eye?
There are reasons and causes why and how in everything.
I’ll find Romeo to comfort you.
Even the best jewel can be tarnished.
Then don’t move while I act out my prayer.
Neither?
They call this “the argumentative countercheck.” And so on through “the circumstantial lie” and “the direct lie.” And how many times did you say his beard wasn’t cut well?
You’ll become a wood salesman and buy nothing but clubs from me.
Help me here.
You’re not thinking of leaving tonight, surely?
Write all this
It was yesterday, your highness.
Kingdoms and provinces dropped from his pockets like loose change.
Nathaniel’s coat was being fixed, sir.
Who calls so coldly?
What do you have to say, noble friend?
The queen your mother is upset, and sent me to see you.
She lied to me, and she may lie to you.
Age hasn’t dried up my body or eroded my intelligence so much, and luck hasn’t robbed me of so much of my fortune, and my bad ways haven’t deprived me of so many friends, that they won’t find me ready to seek revenge both physically and mentally, with money and friends at my disposal.
She’ll be buried with her face upwards, then.
But, tell me, where is the noble Richmond now?
Read the time there.
Come on, show me the wound that my eyes have caused.
It’s true, my lords, he did.
Look who’s coming
My lord, could I have a word with you?
And you must think people are stupid if you believe they wouldn’t realize all the motives you have for trying to kill me.” Oh, how monstrously evil!
Yes, it’s just clothing.
Your answer is so strange!
I’ll meet you at the ferry.
But you can’t see where you’re going, sir.
Look, here’s the necklace.
It’s a letter from my brother that I haven’t finished reading yet.
Who delivered it?
Let’s not, Brutus.
What’s done is done.
If she is, you can sue me for lying to you.
There’s your boyfriend, sleeping right over there.
Seleucus’ ingratitude makes me wild.
So why aren’t our eyelids heavy?
What do you wish?
I’m sorry, you were saying?
Sadness is only appropriate for funerals.
Follow my mother.
And if your love can produce something from its sadness, write a poem for her; hang it on her grave and sing it to her bones.
Tell them to capture me, then sell my bones.
Come, gentlemen, let’s go in.
We’ll go visit Caliban, my slave who always talks to us so nastily.  
Why are you locking her away because of this fiend from hell, Signor Baptista?
Everyone who does so is a traitor and should be hanged.
Don’t tell me that you’ve heard about this marriage, Friar, unless you can tell me how to prevent it.
Morning’s here.
Certainly, your grandmother had a worse match.
Why not?
I can see you don’t like this gentleman.
And after this I’ll be good and hope you forgive me.
Anything.
Why?
Well, then, be brave and pretend to be a man.
If, then, that friend demands to know why I rose up against Caesar, this is my answer
You’re trying to trick me, my lord.
Is love really tender?
I am not in the giving mood today.
The morning is approaching.
Sir, he left his belongings and treasure.
I’ve got no hope that he survived.
Only yesterday the word of Caesar might have stood against the world.
Helena, it’s not true.
If you hang around me for two more years, you’ll forget the sound of your own voice.
I’d rather have my horse than a mistress.
I saw the handkerchief.
Because she’s been chosen by Signior Hortensio.
Then he swore he was a stranger here.
No, the man who cannot extol the virtues of my horse from dawn to dusk is not particularly clever.
Was there ever such an evil book with such a beautiful cover?
You see, her eyes are open.
This much I can say about him
I know you from before.
The gentleman she danced with told her you insulted her.
You have a fat friend at your master’s house
I’ll play the part wearing either a straw-colored beard, or a sandy beard, or a red beard, or one of those bright yellow beards that’s the color of a French coin.
You have enough holy feeling to advise me to “make peace with God,” but you’re willing to go to war with God by murdering me?
crowned by the golden sun, observed his heroic son and smiled to see him mangle the work of nature, French youth whose fathers and God had nurtured for twenty years, since they were babies.
I’ll let you know right away how it’s going.
Yes, they are.
And then Pyramus showed up.
Your lord knows what I think.
This is the final discussion I will grant.
A worthy fool!
Let him command me, and I’ll do whatever he asks, no matter how violent.
Not if you go away, there isn’t.
Wake up the moon goddess with a hymn!
Now it’s time to get back to my studying, since I have a lot of serious business to take care of before dinner.
My comfort is that old age, that poor preserver of beauty, can’t make my face any worse than it already is.
Fast work and a little luck are all I need.—Brother, could I have a word with you?
I’m a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
That’s good advice.
I’m involved in your rivalry.
Take me off to jail?
Is he married to Cleopatra?
And, being men, the contents of Caesar’s will would enrage you.
I have important business that requires me to remain in disguise a while longer.
But you heard him swear up and down that he was.
Your doctors have expressly forbidden me to sleep with you, as there’s a risk that you might have a relapse.
If you hadn’t been their father, your white hair would have inspired in them only compassion.
I never saw her till now.
What’s that, my lord?
What, is the man insane?    
Whoosh!
My lord, it’s news I wish I didn’t have to report.
What did he do that made him flee this land?
I’ll follow after you.
Not in my husband’s nose.
Yes, my lord.
You knew my father well; therefore, you know me, the sole heir to all his property and possessions, which I have added to rather than depleted.
Hello, sir.
I wouldn’t dream of opposing such an obviously promising idea.
Goodbye, you beautiful, cruel woman.
Go and get her dressed.
Come help me bless this couple, so they will be prosperous and have many children.
Farewell to you, and you, and you, Volumnius.
Are these wind instruments?
My lord, I’ll do it right away.
This world is almost six thousand years old, and in all this time not one man has ever actually died from love.
Which one is Sebastian?
Look how politely it’s pointing you to a place that’s farther away.
Well, first there was the prince from Naples.
No, Cassio wasn’t killed.
More and more light.
Your superiors.
The king’s son, Ferdinand, with his hair standing straight up—it looked like reeds, not hair—was the first person to jump, shouting, “Hell is empty, and all the devils are here!” Good job!
Go to your bedroom.
There is a particular lord who will watch you perform tonight.
Don’t refuse it.
I’ll follow.
No, really, I don’t.
Help me.
Don’t think of any beauty But the beauty of Rosalind.
And when she speaks, doesn’t her voice stir up passion?
Renowned duke, please join us in the abbey, where we will discuss at length all that has happened to us.
Come over here, nurse.
An awful monster!
The duke of Gloucester, who has command over the siege, is in consultation with an Irishman, a very valiant gentleman indeed.
That’s what I want you to tell me.
Is it possible?
By his dress I can tell he’s my countryman, but I don’t recognize him.
I’m too young to remember anything like it.
Hasn’t he proven himself to be a great villain—slandering, scorning, and dishonoring my cousin?
I will catch up with you, Cleopatra, and weep for your forgiveness.
Not in my house, Lucentio.
Self-love, my liege, is not so great a sin as self-neglect.
My lord?
I’ll go straight for that proverb with “To hell with the devil.” You are better at proverbs than I am by as much as “A fool shoots quickly and overshoots his mark.” You have overshot.
Let’s go there.
You’ve forgotten the will I told you about.
Why are you adored?
Please, young sir.
Silvius, tell this youth what it means to be in love.
The devil sings like a nightingale to haunt Poor Tom.
Monday!
I think so.
Please, father, I beg you.
I don’t know what to believe, father.
I’ll get my revenge before I leave this house.
Look, here comes a walking fire.
What do you say, my fair  I do not know dat.
Oh!
I don’t want to hear you sing.
Well, I’ll go to Scone.
I don’t think it would be wise to let Mark Antony, whom Caesar is so fond of, outlive Caesar.
I beg you, listen well.
Go tell the hunters to blow their horns and wake them up.
I can’t say no.
Honest, yes, honest.
The general should be informed about this.
She thanked me and told me that if a friend of mine had a story like mine to tell, she’d fall in love with him.
Oh, Isis, that’s impossible.
If you lie, boy, we’ll have you whipped.
What’s the matter?
Dear gods in heaven, what’s the reason for this?
We were somewhere where I couldn’t pick a fight with him, but I’ve decided to wear it in my cap until I see him again, whereupon I’ll give him a little piece of my mind.
The reasons for his death are recorded in the Capitol.
You’re a hardworking villain who’d do anything his evil mistress wanted him to.
We’ll do what you want us to, my lord.
Let heaven and men and devils tell me to shut me up.
Who wants to buy the flock and the pasture?
You’re tigers, not daughters.
This is Caesar you’re looking at.
I think I hear Antony call me.
Thank you, madam.
I wish none of this had happened, given the situation here, and your rank.
Thank you.
Please go back to Goneril’s house.
Tell me how.
Here an angel’s lying in a golden bed.—Give me the key.
But life itself, my wife, and the whole world aren’t more valuable to me than your life is.
I’d give it all up—yes, I’d sacrifice them all to this devil here—to save you.
Nor is it up to you, my lord.
I’ve sent for him.
I won’t leave him alone until he gives Cassio his job back.—How are you, my lord?
We’ll talk more about this later.—Egeus, I’m overriding your wishes.
Come here.
He says I won’t get into heaven because I’m a Jew’s daughter, and he says you’re irresponsible because by converting Jews to Christianity you’re raising the price of pork.
No, I don’t, sir.
How can I describe you that will make you appeal to the young woman and will also agree with God, the law, my honor, and her feelings?
There’s no one else here.
Good night.
Any villain in Denmark is going to be, well, a villain.
Has it been decided that Richard will be  It’s been decided, though not yet officially announced.
He’s still sleeping, ma'am.
Oh, life is full of surprises!
What do you need me to do?
But come on, let’s see you do your dance.
What do you have to say for yourself, Hermia?
There is scorn and disdain in her eyes, and those sparkling eyes despise everything they look upon.
She’s dead, I think.—Help, uncle!—Hero, why Hero!
Why, how could she have been murdered?
Let’s go forth, dear countrymen.
Go on.
In short, I’m not.
I could challenge him to a duel and then not show up.
Farewell to you both.
In emergencies you meet the strangest folks.
I swear to God it’s true, sir.
Then you really are insane, if you’re no saner than a fool.
Pindarus, order our commanders to lead their charges a little ways away from this ground.
I know he’s noble, rich, young, and with a fine reputation.
Happy indeed, the way we have spent the day.
Okay, now it starts!
Hold your tongue.
There’s Dolabella, who was sent from Caesar.
He can’t possibly be such a monster— And I’m sure he isn’t.
Forget about him, Jack!
Stay here.
Yes, my lord.
What did I do wrong?
But we already swore, sir.
Every town and port is crawling with henchmen on the lookout, waiting to capture me.
Shall I let them exhibit me to the shouting mobs of Rome?
Pray well, father.
Why, that man is a total fraud and rascal.
Queen Margaret saw your sword steaming with his blood.
The moral of this story is that it’s not enough to speak; you have to speak grammatically.
But this would be too cold a place to sleep if he hadn’t warmed himself with ale.
Here he comes, my lord.
How did you know what happened to your poor father?
Bring down that top sail!
Cowards die many times before their deaths.
I know when a man is on fire, he’ll swear anything.
Please, my lady, just confirm that you’re the lady of the house so I can get on with my speech.
Cough them up.
But I’m afraid we’ll never get him to agree to be king.
Come on.
Well, that doesn’t worry me.
You’re a fool.
Call in my maid.
Now he’s a little crooked.
My children would have enjoyed a better death if God had blessed you with a purer life.
Is that possible?
Shall we call in the ambassador, my liege?
Well, I’ll get married one day, just to see.
My master has instructed me to go to Saint Luke’s to tell the priest to be ready in case you should show up with your better half.
So, what’s the news on the Rialto?
Me too.
Nobody’s coming?
Let’s go find him and cheer him up.
Though our lives—   We have decided, my lord.
If the other two are as loopy as we are, our country’s in bad shape.
Now go to the door and stay there until I call for you.
Besides, he’s young and handsome, and he’s got all the qualities that naïve and silly girls go for.
It stands by her bedside.
He’s laughed at my losses, made fun of my earnings, humiliated my race, thwarted my deals, turned my friends against me, riled up my enemies—and why?
Am I Dromio?
But here come some people, right in the nick of time.  
But now they rise from the dead with twenty fatal head wounds and push us off our stools.
Am I sorry that I only had one child?
I can tell by the way you waggle your head.
All right, then.
Some people say that the earth shook as if it had a fever.
Or like a whale.
Someone who can ride fast, go to the duke of  Here, my good lord.
She was filthy!
How are you, Sir Toby Belch?
It was worse than being a captive in chains.
Oh Clitus!    
Why?
Noses, ears, lips.
Killing him once is not enough revenge.
This is going even better than I planned.
What’s the matter?
Do you know them?
Then it must be Banquo’s.
I’m glad to see you.
But come, lords, will you come with me to Edward’s room to comfort him?
man’s cheeks.
No, I’ve had my say.
I swear on my life, which I take pretty seriously, even if I am a magician.
Then he’s no good.
No woman is strong enough to put up with the kind of intense passion I feel.
Where does he sleep?
I will go out.
How could you ask?
Oh, now you weep, and I sense that you feel pity.
He is positively stuffed with honorable virtues.
Dear man, calm your rage.
Are these the wretches that we threw dice for?
Your statue spouting blood through many holes, in which many smiling Romans bathed, means that you’ll provide great Rome with sustaining blood, and that great men will strive to get some token of approval from your holy blood.
Tell them to slick down their hair, brush their blue coats, and make sure their socks match.
I defy brain-death!
Why are you frowning like that?
Tybalt is dead, and Romeo has been banished.
If your gentle souls are still flying in the air and have not yet landed where they will remain forever, hover around me with your airy wings and hear your mother’s lament.
I know you have no choice.
It’s too bad I’m so hard-hearted, because I really don’t love anyone.
Please walk softly, so not even a mole hears us approach.
Where’s this so-called king?
No, uncle, I won’t be married.
Who is this fool?
Follow his chariot, like the greatest disgrace to your whole gender.
Even if the news is sad, tell me with a smile on your face.
I love rich Capulet’s daughter.
Shall I put it plainly?
Here he comes back.
Twenty-five, sir.
Oh bloody Richard!
I haven’t come to steal your loyalty, friends.
Just now a tailor showed me fabrics he bought especially for me and then started to take my measurements.
Pardon, dear father.
Get out of that position, because I can disarm you with my magic wand and make your sword drop.
Hey!
And in a P.S.
Please don’t take my niece the wrong way, sir.
Will you dine with me tomorrow?
Should I go convince my daughter to marry you?
What will this do?
No, please.
Is that so?
Write down “Master Gentleman Conrade.”—Gentlemen, are you good Christians, and do you serve God?
Henry Lord Scroop of Masham, I arrest you for high treason.
If you’re being fair, you’ll have to describe me as someone who loved too much, but who wasn’t wise about it.
Portia, what are you doing awake?
Kent, if you want to stay alive, stop talking.
I swear to God you’re accusing me wrongly!
But here comes a scoundrel who says he saw me at the marketplace and that I beat on him, told him I’d given him a thousand marks in gold, and then lied about my wife and my house.
They killed my children too?
But where did this happen?
She herself is as valuable as any dowry could ever be.  
It turns kings into gods and men of lower rank into kings.
What a king Claudius is!
be like the fountain that my children and all my descendants flow from, has rejected me!
Yes, that one.
Can you ask around and find out?
Tell him to surrender.
But in spite of all this, the man is still wealthy enough.
I had to hurry to my love, beautiful Helena, who lights up the night better than all those fiery stars.
May heaven save us from indecent thoughts!
Do you have to harp on my inadequacy?
And who are you, good sir?
Can I have some?
I wish my daughter were dead at my feet wearing those jewels!
Get out of here quickly!
And weren’t you the one who made him cheat on all of his other girlfriends, like Aegles, Ariadne, and Antiopa?
A man named Taurus, they say.
From a certain knight who swore on his honor that the pancakes he was eating were good, and that the mustard on top of them—he swore on his honor—was bad.
Who is that gentleman?
Seven days and seven nights?
Not tonight—today.
Your clothes aren’t spattered with my family’s blood, and you aren’t affected by my curse.
By the moon and stars!
But what about Cicero?
I remember you took the throne from your brother Prospero.
I’ll put the juice of this flower on Titania’s eyes, and fill her with horrible delusions and desires.
Speak, nephew.
Madam, oh, good Empress!
Yes, sir, and I’ll leave when you ask me to.
To none but you, only to you.
Our master and mistress are looking for you.
You can ride him easily, and he responds well when you pull the reins.
We’ll meet at the Elephant.
I’ll get your goats, Audrey.
That’s why paintings of Cupid, the god of love, always show him as blind.
He says she has no equal.
Is he really married?
Are you talking about the crown?
That’s all I want, and I’ll do anything to accomplish it.
Sit between us.
No doubt, no doubt.
Where are you, Pindarus?
Queen of Egypt, greetings!
That was a humorous message.
This is a good agreement.
What do you say now?
I’ll go join him there, going down deeper than any anchor ever sank, and lie with him dead in the mud.
Good sir—
So we should eat and drink.
The armies were like two exhausted swimmers clinging to each other and struggling in the water, unable to move.
The three-beat rhythm is a good for dancing, and the church bells chime—one, two, three.
He almost begs for the opportunity to help you.
Why do you pity him?
To invite my former boss, the Jew, to dine tonight with my new master, the Christian.
Never, my lord.
Listen!
He keeps tearing out his white hair, which the blindly raging winds catch up and blow away into nothingness.
I’m going now.
He said he did—I don’t know.
By my birth I rank above you, but don’t be afraid of my greatness.
Now Antony has to leave her completely.
This is the man.
A little water will wash away the evidence of our guilt.
You take your beauty sleep now.
For you to threaten to kill me is most unlawful.
How is my lord?
The law allows it, and the court awards it.
I’m sure it is to knight you, Captain.
Past noon.
Will you please make this half-devil say why he tricked me and damned my soul?
Let’s stay and hear the will!
Don’t trust rotten planks.
What time is it?
What does she want?
And here’s another poem, which I stole from my cousin’s pocket—in her handwriting and all about her adoration for Benedick.
The biggest clue is his seriousness.
I do.
Why should we do this?
Instead of crying, let’s keep hold of our swords and defend our fallen homeland like honorable men.
And it’s too bad, Brutus, that you don’t have any mirrors that could display your hidden excellence to yourself.
Until then, God be with you!
That’s all there is to it.
In what chapter and verse of his heart?
And I’m expecting his reproach.
The villain won’t escape.
This sight of death is like a bell that warns me I’m old and I’ll die soon.
From my house, if I had a house—” “The sixth of July.
The one who makes her queen, of course.
The Bishop of Ely has fled to Richmond, and Buckingham, backed by a hardy Welsh army, is on the march.
What can I do for you, madam?
I’m very glad.
This is the man.
Take him safely through the lines.
Benedick’s heart is like a bell, with his tongue as the clapper
When he regained consciousness again, he said that if he’d done or said anything wrong, he wanted them to know that it was all because of his sickness.
But I’m not dying yet!
At least it’s possible in Denmark. 
I’d like to sing my song solo.
He who will not follow me now, let him depart and stand in the doorway like a pimp, cap in hand, while some slave, no nobler than my dog, violates his daughter.
Now grit your teeth and let your nostrils flare.
But I spoke with someone who saw Cawdor die, and he said that Cawdor openly confessed his treasons, begged your highness’s forgiveness, and repented deeply.
I can’t find it.
And if they don’t find charity there, they find it someplace else.
Richard is looking cheerful today.
We will go in together.
I’ll help you through this business.
Don’t imagine that I’ll ever allow myself to return to Rome in chains.
It’s time to end it, good lady.
Let rivers flood and fiends howl for food!
Let’s play billiards.
You won’t find any cause for anxiety, even if you look for one.
Evil villain!
Maybe some merchant at the marketplace invited him home for lunch.
What’s going on?
Seek!
Go back, slave, or I’ll knock you one across the head.
Everyone join hands.
Bring them right in.
I’m here, I’ve been destroyed by villains!
A good person who does something wrong is only patched up with sin.
Come, Dolabella.
Off with his son George’s head!
Of course I will.
Do tell.
I sent the French queen with him too, for the same reason.
I could do it myself.
Please, tell Benedick about her feelings and see what he has to say.
Aren’t you Lady Olivia’s fool?
She has a low-pitched voice.
Then come to my house tomorrow morning, and since you couldn’t be my son-in-law, be my nephew instead.
That’s when you gave them the spanking paddle and pulled your pants down,            Please, uncle, hire a teacher who can teach your fool to lie.
Meet me down at the harbor.—Come here.
Okay, but tonight doesn’t count.
What infinite peace do king’s give up that private men enjoy?
Go wisely and slowly.
But I still have a little memory left, and there’s still some fire in my eyes; my dull, deaf ears can still hear a little.
Is that you, Diomedes?
Not at all, not at all.
Will you be here when I return?
You’re going to lose this bet, my lord.
Do you think you’ve won?
You have no reason to say that.
So, thank God, there is no real need for me, as I wouldn’t be able to help you much.
Oh, my lady, I’m ashamed to admit it.
Hey, Mountain, hey!
Getting right to the point, I live near the Capitol.
Come on.
Who will advance with me?
Therefore, tremble with fear and leave.
Is he in his royal garments?
Live, Brutus!
All I can hope for now is a share of the feast.
There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisbe that will never work.
The moon sets at twelve, right?
Set fire!
Hello to you too, sir.
I am sick and sullen.
No doubt, but you may be going about it the wrong way—Neighbor, this gift is very gracious, I’m sure.
I’ve finished it for you, and it ends in “Margaret.” He’s turned your curse against you, Margaret.
This speech is going on too long.
Put a candle in my study, Lucius.
Not at all, Touchstone.
The Duke’s in a meeting right now, and he’s sent for you too.
And here I am, with that piece.
Did you see anything?
Well, you can go now.
He still hasn’t told us about the captain.
If you leave me like this, you’re doing me wrong.
All cooped up together, just as you ordered, all imprisoned in the grove of linden trees that protects your room from bad weather.
It’s fair game to mark a coward.
And your experience makes you sad.
Of course I hear it.
Who can prosecute me for it?
This chatter is no cure for my toothache.
Please wait, sir.
Listen to me, Beatrice— Talking with a man outside her bedroom window!
I’m asking you to understand my point of view.
They’re calling for dates and quinces in the pastry kitchen.
A deed that will make sick men healthy.
As it dissolves, so shall my life.
Isn’t it completely moral to kill him now with this sword—and an easy conscience?
I’m feeling very low, and I need to sleep.
Who put out the light?
All right.
You’re going to ask me why I’d rather have a pound of decaying flesh than three thousand ducats.
Neither would I.
Where’s Antony?
I have to tell you, I thought you were a much kinder person than this.
I’m not like that now.
I’m whipped and tortured— May God give you a good evening.
Come on.
No, you’d answer, “The slaves are ours.” And that’s just how I’m answering you.
EPHESUS Now what do you think?
Your Highness just told me that I should ride there before you.
Did you call, my lord?
Will you help me?—What an ass and a fool, a gullible no-good idiot!
We just want you to answer to your real name.
At Pembroke, or at Harfordwest in Wales.
You did—not just once or twice, but twenty times.
If  Well, I’ll just forget the difficulties of my situation, in order to focus on the happiness of yours.
Yes, revered Queen.
Ask me any commonsense question.
If he’s caught the Benedick, he’ll lose all his money before he’s cured.
Get up.
That’s the one.
Who knows what the Lord Protector thinks?
Well, then, what are you messing up?
Please tell your brother what a convincing show I put on.
Why, anyone can see what this means.
She’s Phoebe-ing me.
What an enormous thing for us to forget!—Edmund, tell us, where’s the king?
Not much.
And does this prospect of good fortune make you happy?
I’ll stay, my lord.
Oh pain!
From now on I will, cousin, and I’ll think of all kinds of games for us.
There must be something in the air here.
That means it’s more likely to be fake.
Is he sane?
All hail, Macbeth!
Who’s that?
It’s almost morning, but I’m sure you’re not fully satisfied about what happened.
I took the hint and spoke to her.
What do you say, Caesar?
It’s true she looked at me a lot, in fact, she looked at me so much that she seemed distracted, and couldn’t really finish her sentences very well.
Don’t you have any respect for anything?
Oh, no.
You horrid slave, you can’t be trained to be good, and you’re capable of anything evil!
It’s almost morning.
And brief, good mother—I’m in a hurry.
I’m still young enough to see without glasses, and I don’t see what you’re talking about.
Good morning, gentlemen.
One of them contains my picture.
And who can help thinking how monstrous it was for Malcolm and Donalbain to kill their gracious father?
As God is my witness, you know you’re mine.
He’ll stay as long as I say.
What?
I am the worst person alive, and I know it the best.
Oh, Regan, she’s torn me apart with unkindness, like a vulture, right here. 
Come, put it over my face. 
Where is my lovely bride?
That’s always true.
Here, here I’ll remain with worms that are your chamber-maids.
If you take it too seriously, it’ll have bad effects that I didn’t want it to have.
I regret all the boring time I wasted with her.
What’s up, man?
We are men, my lord.
If you make the accusation convincingly, then my cunning won’t fail me.
They drink Danes under the table, and it takes them no effort at all to out-drink Germans.
Still, Edmund was beloved.
Tell me.
No I won’t, even if you were one of the worst demons in hell.
I do the wrong and am the first to start quarrels.
But listen, if 
Don’t deceive me.
Roderigo’s been killed?
Let’s go to this great feast.
My husband lost his life to get the crown, and my sons' fortunes have been tossed up and down, leaving me to rejoice over their victories and weep over their losses.
I’m sure Lorenzo isn’t on their ship.
Oh, my lord, you once said that lazy weeds grow fast.
I mean what I say.
Yes, do you hear me, Balthasar?
Well, let’s move on to our work with the living.
You who are so skilled in cursing, stay awhile and teach me how to curse my enemies.
I’ll be good, sir.
And to me, Denmark is a prison.
Give him this deed and have him sign it.
Oh, do you think we’ll ever meet again?
Thanks, you brave men who defend this island and respect Othello.
Send me away?
Inside, sir, with the earl.
What should I call you when you’re a man?
He’s a very proper man.
The foul plan backfired on me.
I can’t put my feelings into verse, but please believe I love you best, oh, best of all.
Pretend to be very concerned about both the Prince, who has compromised his honor by making the match, and Claudio, whose reputation will be ruined by this woman who’s pretending to be a virgin.
The great emperor Caesar, dead and turned to clay, might plug up a hole to keep the wind away.
Be good.
Look, Don Pedro has come back for you.
I will confess it to all the world.
Polite sir, let me say one thing.
Look!
Do you think so?
What’s the matter here, gentlemen?—Honest Iago, you look upset.
If you refuse me, the laws of Venice have no validity.
Sometimes the love my subjects bring me is inconvenient, but I still accept it as love.
Bring him to me.
The Prince’s fool”!
It eats and sleeps and has the same five senses we do.
Really, cousin, it’s him.
This imaginary suitor for Katherina—I’d buy him the best horse in Padua if he’d get here quickly, woo her, marry her, take her to bed, and rid the house of her.
Get me some ink and paper, and hire some horses to ride.
You’ll make me angry.
He was my brother’s son!
It’s partly my own fault, since I followed you here.
And I’ll help you.
What things, my lord?
Do that, and I’ll set you free in two days.
God bless you for doing this.
And me too.
I remember wooing a pea plant in her name, and then taking two pea pods and begging her to wear them “for my sake.” Those of us who are really in love will do the strangest things.
Baptista is a noble gentleman—one to whom my father is not completely unknown—and lovely as his daughter is, she is entitled to any number of suitors—myself among them.
Yes, that’s for sure.
Stop, sir, for God’s sake!
Where are you running so fast?
Don’t think I blame you.
Who’s that?
Here it is.
I confess my crime and throw myself on your Highness’s mercy.
Hymen brought her from heaven Yes, brought her here.
Now, my dear friend, what lucky wind blows you in from Verona?
What’s the matter?
Antony’s eyes are fiery red from crying.
What features?
Well, Petruchio, all this is very encouraging.
I’m sure you both remember me.
We have enough supplies for it, and they’ve earned it.
I’ll read it aloud.
How are you, Roderigo?
Valentine’s Day is over.
I hate the word peace like I hate hell, all Montagues, and you.
Be patient with him, Brutus.
You drank horses’ urine and water from scum-covered puddles that even animals would refuse.
Signed,    The poorly treated Malvolio.” Did he write this?
Let this solemn melody comfort your fevered minds, which are now useless, seething inside your skulls.—All of you stand there in my spell.—
Three times today my horse stumbled and started when he looked in the direction of the Tower, as if he hated to carry me to this slaughterhouse.
Her husband, you rascal.
I’m not holding your hand, sir.
I think you’re more articulate.
What is my nation?
Your Majesty is quite right.
When your mind is at peace, your body is sensitive to the elements.
Don’t be scared.
I plan to fall into the blackest despair.
Or should I say it’s her uncle?
And some have greatness thrust upon them.” Heaven help you!
Get away from me, witch!” the fat woman cried.
He’s like a cowardly 
What does my powerful master wish for?
His horse is killed, so he’s fighting on foot, risking his life to search out Richmond.
Please spare my innocent wife and children!—Kind warden, please stay with me for a while.
My lord, the queen wants to speak with you right away.
If she punishes you, master, she’s sure to punish me.
And you, sister?
You call it my “ Don’t you know?
If he stays in this country he’ll be found.
Keep this libertine occupied with endless debauchery.
We’ll get married at some point, Audrey.
Good night, lieutenant.
Do you bring me a letter from the friar?
And so I said to my daughter
Quiet!
Madam, I heard her speak.
Quiet there!
Will you be patient?
Little” again?
Meanwhile, let’s go to bed and dream about this.
Look, my love, what are those streaks of light in the clouds parting in the east?
I’d rather adopt a child than have one of my own.—Come here, Moor.
Take me by the hand and say, “Harry of England, I am yours.” No sooner shall I hear that word than I will tell you straight out, “England is yours, Ireland is yours, France is yours, and Harry Plantagenet
We all begged you not to go ahead with those marriage plans, and your lovely daughter struggled between disgust at marrying an African and the desire to obey you.
What handkerchief?
And yet for all that, if she didn’t hate him to death, she’d love him to death.
It’s stopped now—it must be played for some local god of the island.
My God, it’s morning.
They’ve eaten themselves sick.
Not me, believe me.
And our drunkenness does detract from our achievements, as great as they are, and lessens our reputations.
If your Majesties recall it, the Welsh fought very valiantly in a garden where there were leeks growing, wearing leeks in their Monmouth caps which, your Majesty knows, is to this day a badge of honorable military service.
Then, rejecting my request, you kill 
You say you have news that’s old?
Oh, really?
Maybe you think that I think you’re in love.
Yes, in a very gentlemanly way.
Whenever I mention him, praise him more than any man deserves.
How should madmen hear, if wise men can’t even see?
But please, tell me
Say the last word I spoke was “Antony,” and please word it pathetically.
My father’s spirit is growing in me, and I won’t take this any longer.
No, of course you don’t.
I haven’t slept since Cassius first began to turn me against Caesar.
Heaven help him!
The cold wind’s still blowing through the hawthorn tree. 
Do you want to know what I wrote?
No, I swear by my life and soul!
Where do you live, pretty young man?
You look happier already, and I’ll be back quickly.
What are you doing?
Why, then, should I cry?
Send me away, my lord, but don’t kill me!
Please, remain seated.
Yes, Shylock, I’ll sign the contract and agree to its terms.
Ha!
Calphurnia!
My lord, I don’t know what’s going on, but it seems to me that your highness isn’t being treated as politely as before.
So go in peace.
I don’t know what private grudges they had that made them do it.
No, sir.
Come, everyone.
One of you run to the Queen with the news.
Are you my daughter?
He doesn’t know what he’s saying.
They say that this town is full of deception—illusionists that can fool the eye, dark sorcerers who can bewitch your mind, soul-killing witches who can disfigure your body, disguised swindlers, fast-talking fakers, and all kinds of other unchecked sins.
He exposed Edgar’s murderous plot, and was wounded, as you see there, when trying to apprehend him.
So, tell me, assuming I win your daughter’s love, what dowry would she bring to the marriage?
Do so.
Like a fire that gets covered up, Benedick should smother his love and waste away.
Yes, with Cassio.
It’s two o'clock now.
Do you maintain the same story?
I hear what they say about him for doing that.
I will not confess it to you nor to anyone else, because there was no one else to witness her speech.
Come on!
It has no fighting spirit.
Ready.
I’ll write how, under his flag and with his well-paid troops, we have beaten the formerly unvanquished Parthia.
Medicine is for the dogs.
Should I tend your pigs and eat husks with them?
Find out who did it!
I’m not myself.
However, this is an extreme situation, and it’s more important to control it than to worry about how you’ll look.
What bond do we need other than that of discreet Romans who have said what they’re going to do and won’t back down?
Ride to Salisbury.
Why did I come here if not for that?
I tell you I requested that your master cut out the gown, but I didn’t ask him to cut it all to pieces.
I see the downfall of my family.
No more than I do yours.
It’s—But he’s drowned, and these guys are devils.
Claudio?
Last night she got no sleep, and she won’t get any tonight.
Let those who will hear me speak stay.
Oh, and young men never die?
Bring that swinger Orlando here.
And has my armor been put in my tent?
When did she send you?
I’ve done a bad thing, for which I will blame myself so much that I’ll never be happy again.
I don’t
Your eyes look threatening.
And did you see the handkerchief?
Most noble Antony!” Then, as she was speaking your name, a strangled groan split her words.
I’ll let you get away with skipping the praise.
I’d rather be a dog and howl at the moon than be that kind of Roman.
Why,
It cannot be.
I wasn’t expecting you, and I’m not ready to receive you.
Pish to you, you mangy dog, you pointy-eared Icelandic mutt.
I’m not talking with you.
That’s how it will be for some other men, too, who think they’re as safe as you and I, who are well-loved by noble Richard and Buckingham.
Why, she’s a lamb, a dove, a child compared to him!
I know a lot about the love women can feel for men.
You asked for justice, so rest assured you’ll get more justice than you bargained for.
Wasn’t Don John at dinner tonight?
No.
For it is written in the book of Numbers
Nonsense!
Your friends at Pomfret, they’re the ones who need a priest.
As far as I know, he’s not even dead.
It’s getting there.
And now he’s gone.
Put on your nightgown.
If you complain any more, I’ll split an oak tree and lock you up in it till you’ve howled for twelve years.
She speaks daggers, and every word stabs.
But if you decide not to marry me, you’ll marry this faithful shepherd instead?
But you would be more honorable if you changed your mind.
Boy, I beg you to run to the senate house.
He ran to his house, stunned.
I heard that Julius Caesar got fat from all the feasting there.
Sir, such a life with such a wife is unlikely!
Richard, the duke of Gloucester, is very dangerous, and the queen’s sons and brothers are haughty and proud—it would be better for this ailing country if they were subjects, not rulers.
I’m coming, don’t worry.
That’s how Claudio will respond.
But if we have reasons that are strong enough to ignite cowards into action and to make weak women brave—and I think we do—then, countrymen, what else could we possibly need to spur us to action?
His virtue is not hidden.
Is it really possible that you could like her right after meeting her?
He has a father, and yet he is fatherless.
Now you know the reason for the rush.
Oh, yes I am, father.
So find someone younger to love, or you won’t be able to maintain your feelings.
But this is a sure thing
That’s what I conceive of him.
Ah ha!
That’s very strange.
I will harp on it till my heartstrings break.
We’re trying to be reasonable while you’re so upset, and we understand that you’re old, and… But Goneril knows what she’s doing.
You need to.
Come on, sir.
Like love, my lord, before it learns to love.
Don’t joke about his predictions.
Are you scared?
The Duke’s in a meeting?
Goodbye, my Desdemona.
Romeo killed Tybalt.
Did you see the king today, Lord Derby?
Run, my lord, run.
Oh, I know.
Fathers who wear rags Make their children neglect them.
Never trust me again if I don’t.
I must and will have Katherine for my wife.
Claribel, his daughter.
It will be to your advantage, because I’ll leave our father’s house and all his property to you, while I live and die a shepherd here in the forest.
Don’t provoke me any further or I’ll forget to restrain myself.
When I work it over with magic spells, the drop will produce magical spirits that will trick Macbeth with illusions.
But that’s not how you’re going to be.
They swore you did.
Do I have the asp’s poison on my lips?
But I’m sure he’ll get even with you.
And no doubt he is, gracious madam.
I’ll tell him the news.
The Duke and any of my fellow senators will take this wrong as seriously as if it were their own.
If you mutiny against me, I’ll hang you from the next tree.
But what about your guilty conscience?
Oh, it breaks my heart to think how painful it must be for you to recall all this, things that I can’t remember.
Sad or happy?
Unless I’ve mistaken his battle flags, which I’m sure I haven’t, his regiment lies at least half a mile south of the king’s mighty army.
What is your name, young man?
But I won’t attack a woman, even if she is a demon.
He picked out the letter “G” from the alphabet and said a wizard told him that “G” will take the throne away from his children.
Sir, the king— Yes, what about him?
Then she was even more an angel, and you’re an even blacker devil!
If you had, the kings that have revolted and the soldier that deserted this morning would still be behind you.
We will speak about this further.
I don’t know, sir.
If not, I’ll challenge you to a duel.
These outbursts of yours don’t even look like real fear.
What did he do when you saw him?
All these friends are my witnesses, so I swear to you, I swear by your beautiful eyes, in which I see myself reflected— Did you hear that!
But in the meantime, just assume that I’m paranoid—as I’m pretty sure I am—and keep thinking she’s innocent, please.
Though we have lost a generous king, we are about to enjoy the benefits of a new king.
Bring me this plant, and get back here before the sea monster has time to swim three miles.
The British troops are coming near.
You’ll discover that his youthful follies were like the persona that  Well, you’re wrong, my Lord High Constable.
The humiliation is all mine.
Would you rather hear these things from our mouths or from our master’s?
Madam, Count Orsino’s young messenger has returned.
She was lying even as she was going down to hell.
Oh God, Benedick will plague him like a disease!
But sir, have you married my daughter without my consent?
Our reasons are so well considered that even if you, Antony, were Caesar’s son, you would be satisfied with them.
Stop advising me; your words pass through my ears like water through a sieve.
The tawny cat has meowed three times.
My lord, I swear to you— Oh, don’t swear!
If you like, we’ll stand by and wait to do whatever you need.
I tell you, I’m as sane as any man in Illyria.
The work we enjoy is not really work.
Oh, and I know who loves him.
I will, my lord.
If you’re the ones setting my daughters against me, don’t let me be foolish enough to take it lying down.
Now you say it was “Knock at the gate”?
The foulest fate would be most appropriate for me now in this latest phase of my life.
Your father was an extremely moral man, and religious people get odd ideas on their deathbeds.
Oh, hello, father!
Who’s the one who’s going out the door right now?
I’ve worked it out.
Oh, Ophelia, I’m bad at poetry.
I have to pretend to threaten you with my sword.
You devil, you’ve put a spell on her!
Well, let’s hope you stay in that noble frame of mind.
Yes, sir, we hope so.
Time ambles for both men.
Her
Let playful people with light hearts dance.
My name is Pistol.
You can’t judge me based on what I do tonight.  
She’s been dead for some time.
You know I would never approve a war against my own cause.
No, my lord.
Give him room.
Farewell.
It’s leaping about like a frisky horse.
Welcome, gentlemen.
Be kind to her.
In this world, I’m only taking up space.
Tom’s chilly.
That’s why he hates me.
Lady, did you sleep in her room last night?
Shylock, although I never lend or borrow with interest, I’m willing to break that habit to help a friend in need.
In that case, leave our cousin Katherine here with us.
You’ve won the wager, and I will add twenty thousand crowns to what they owe you.
But I’ve been sent to find the people whose names are written on this list, and I can’t read!
No, son.
What good luck!
And everything will be alright, I promise you, wife.
I’ll do anything you ask, monster, anything reasonable.—Come on, Trinculo, let’s sing.
Please tell me what you’re thinking—even your worst suspicions.
Oh, no, he’s surely not in hell.
How did he say good-bye?
My enemies help me understand myself better, which is an advantage, and my friends help me lie about myself, which is a disadvantage.
Even  What, were you all snarling before I arrived, ready to catch each other by the throat like dogs, but now that I’m here, you turn your hatred toward me?
Is she really that wonderful?
Then my love is humble.
Stop right there, sir.
Seriously, though, son Petruchio, I think you have the most thoroughgoing shrew of us all.
Call to him, Mercutio.
Hurry up.
No one passing by?
Is he talking nonsense?
But surely you’re not planning to 
I wish I could work for that lady!
But step aside, fairy!
I would whip a guy for making a tyrant sound too tyrannical.
What have you found out?
Do you think I would be feeling as triumphant as I am if I didn’t know that our situation was secure?
You and I have heard our fathers talk of another Brutus—your ancestor—who would’ve let the devil himself reign in his Roman Republic before he let a king rule.
You must be over there.
We can’t go on with this plan.
But if you had to say something nice about me, what would you say?
This is beyond weird.
Women are sex machines below the waist, though they’re chaste up above.
Who among us stabbed him for any cause but justice?
You’re taking it more seriously than I meant it.
Why, man?
What’s the news with you?
Welcome, my lord.
You are Antonio, you are he.
I won’t say a word.
Good night, my lord.
If I’m a wasp, look out for my stinger.
Take that, and that.
I’ll do all that.
I’ll invite the duke and all of his followers.
Everyone prepare to take this beautiful corpse to her grave.
Well, then, help me.
When was the last time you saw her sleepwalking?
And I am, I am.
We’re done for!
Afraid that your anger would not subside, she sent you word she was dead.
Pay a surgeon to stand by and bind his wounds, Shylock, so he doesn’t bleed to death.
The other voice is harsh and abusive.
It was a color he never did like.
So prepare to die.
Get lost!
He stole it from me.
Oliver, your brother—no, not your brother; and yet he’s the son—but no, I won’t call him the son—of that great man I was about to call his father, has heard about how well you did in the wrestling match, and tonight he’s planning on burning your house down, with you in it.
Here’s where they’ll end up, on the floor.
Or, if you don’t delay, make my wedding bed in the tomb where Tybalt lies.
Why are you making these faces?
All right, my lord.—How’s the king doing?
Report back to him fast and tell him what has happened.
I wish she were in love with me instead.
You do me wrong by taking me out of the grave.
Our friends are all waiting for you.
None of these deranged rascals can shake me from my profession.
Hey, hurry up, hurry up!
Oh life!
And it’s definitely better to cry because you’re happy than laugh because you’re sad!
Well, if you have to go, you have to go.
I admit the cape.
The question is, how would being king change him?
And yet, against all odds, I win her over!
Oh, to hell with those people!
When I was still living with him I heard him swear to Tubal and Cush, his countrymen, that he’d rather have Antonio’s flesh than twenty times the sum Antonio owed.
I’m ready and waiting.—Give me your hand, Bassanio.
They’ll kill us!
It’s certain that she is dead, and she died in a strange way.
No, I won’t give my medicine away to anyone but the sick.
He doesn’t long for the dawn as we do.
The tiring journey seems to have made you gloomy.
Oh, excellent!
His cowardly lips turned white, and the same eye whose gaze terrifies the world lost its gleam.
Since she would love both of you, you two would be joined in that love.
Will you come to bed, my lord?
Why, Fool?
Too bad it fell flat.
Be patient, because you’re staying with me.
Madam, if you can find a man to deliver the poison, I’ll mix it myself so that Romeo will sleep quietly soon after he drinks it.
No, sir.
Gentlemen, let’s go make sure Cassio’s wounds are properly dressed.—Come on, ma'am, you can tell us another story.
Well, well.
You said it when you were furious.
Who would do that?
Here is the count of the slaughtered French.
Not for a second.
The two of us will guard you while you sleep, my lord, and keep you safe.
Or walk either.
Give him my respects, and tell him I’ll definitely be there for dinner, since I know he has gone to great lengths for this meal.
Farewell, lady.
Come on.
What happened, sir?
If he’s in a good mood I’ll mention you again, and do everything I can.
I’ll talk with this good man.
That’s because the murderer is alive.
We’ll perform all the holy rites.
Oh, how bitter it is that Edward—the real “true, noble prince”—should still be alive!
Have you come from Bellario’s office in Padua?
He is worth no more than that.
Get up, get up, and look at this image of doomsday!
I could be convinced if I were like you.
Hang on, sir!
Are you gone like that, my love, my lord?
Sir, I think I saw him last night.
Your case is most unusual, though the Venetian law can’t stop you from proceeding.— Yes, so he says.
Get going already.
Othello, I’ve been seriously hurt.
Get him to bed and make sure his wounds are treated.
No, my lord, not me.
How did you lose your breath?
In this letter you’ll find details of her illness and other, more serious matters that concern you.
What do you want with me?
They left me and my servant there, tied together.
No.
Tell the hot-headed duke that I… But no, not yet.
Our closest relatives are the ones most likely to murder us.
No, who are  Long live the king!
I was born to speak cleverly, not seriously.
Our bodies are like gardens and our willpower is like the gardener.
He’s great-looking, but how can you talk to someone who doesn’t speak your language?
I’m warning you.
Well, let me get back to my choice.
The crown was offered to him three times?
Go and tell my daughter I want to speak with her.
Don’t be afraid.
I have thousands of logs to take away and pile up, on strict orders from him.
Oh, you idiot!
It just happens, the way gentle rain drops on the ground.
So you’re around Lady Luck’s waist?
I can tell by how pale and deathlike they look.
Oh, just lies, sir.
My cousin’s a fool, and you are too.
Just keep your love under control, and don’t let yourself become a target of his lust.
Besides, the king’s name is a tower of strength; the opposition doesn’t have that advantage.
She has been in a man’s bed.
Well then, if I’ve ever thanked a man, I’ll thank you now.
I hate him so much it makes me sick, and whoever can ruin his happiness will make me happy.
There are parents living whose children you have butchered; they are now old withered plants who will moan over their losses as they grow old.
No, sir.
Everyone who comes to gamble on winning me has to swear to these three rules.
In God’s name, who are you?
The strangers are all gone.
But then again he’s never really understood his own feelings very well.
I’m telling you to make a fist and pound.
Is this your good friend who’s in so much trouble?
Have a safe trip.
So, by heaven’s decree, Rosalind Was composed Of different faces, eyes, and hearts, so that she might have the most prized touches of all.
The king and the prince are praying.
Many men have sold their souls Just to view my shiny surface.
What country is this, friends?
Run, everyone, run!
No, I swear I’m not.
You’re a man with a good reputation.
Oh, don’t fight by sea, noble Emperor!
It’ll help us more than hurt us.
Listen!
Come, last of my friends, rest on this rock.
What a man, young lady.
So much for Fortinbras.
And he’s friendly with Caesar.
Fix your example, shepherd.
It’s a wild night.
Hello, sir.
Oh, darling Orlando, it’s so hard to see you wearing your heart in a sling.
You poor soul, your face has suffered many tears.
We’re going to have an out-and-out brawl if I stay any longer.
If you’re smart, you’ll go home.
Sir, these accusations should be answered.
Where’s Antonio, then?
Hate it, fear it, do not come inside.
Although you deserve praise, applause, and love, right now the duke misconstrues everything you’ve done.
My soul depends on it— A thousand times good night.
I am a villain.
He will have only justice and his penalty.
Where are you, Demetrius, you arrogant bastard?
But did you tell him she cheated on him?
I’ll give you mine.
And now you’re asking for money.
Who were you chasing with your sword?
A devil like you could lead me to hell.
You’ve stained your virtue with your own actions.
You seasoned his food with screams.
It’s been my bad luck to remain alive long enough to be able to tell the sad stories of my own misfortunes.
Yes, kind sister.
Who, Hero?
If love is blind, it can’t hit the target.
who can control his fate?
Watch out!
He’s rushing on his way here right now, and Regan’s with him.
The queen and her elves will be here soon.
Good morning, gentlemen.
You’re not answering my question.
I wish my horse moved as fast as your mouth and was as tireless.
Only for poor men?
Indeed, they say my uncle grew so fast that he could gnaw on a crust of bread when he was two hours old.
What were those things?
Whom did he leave in charge here?
I didn’t do anything wrong that I know of, unless it was a sin to defend myself when someone attacked me.
Driven?” Really?
The Dauphin really wants it to be morning.
What, you want them to weep our horses' blood?
What’s the matter?
But you know, sirrah, we customarily say that the dead are well.
I’ll bet any man who knows the law five shillings to one on it.
And then return to you and nothing else?
Malcolm!
It’s a good tragedy, very well done.
Tell me, friend.
Who’s calling?
Gentlemen, gentlemen—   Gentlemen, don’t speak.
And  I feel that I love her.
She looks like she’s washing her hands.
Snakes shed their skin there, and the shed skin is wide enough to wrap a fairy in.
Nothing.
How wonderful my master is!
The devil in him is strong!
When a great leader dies he doesn’t die alone but, like a whirlpool, draws others with him.
I bet it’s a love letter!  
Let me be your servant.
I think he’s nervous—he’s about to become the savage bull who got domesticated.
What is, my lord?
How can we tell which of us is the oldest?
Your fall has left a blot that opens even the best and brightest to suspicion.
That’s not good, and no good can come of it either.
Well, then, I thank you, though I’m such a beggar that even my thanks are not worth much.
I asked you again, and you scratched your head and stamped your foot impatiently.
There it is.
Good-bye, great commander.
Here.
I’m telling you the truth.
Please don’t ruin any more of my poems by reading them so badly.
Don’t get wound up, my good man.
Come on, sir.
The leftovers from the funeral dinner made a convenient wedding banquet.
How can I help you, sir?
They will tell me more, because I’m determined to know the worst about what’s going to happen.
I won’t betray them.
Are you behind some bush?
Maybe you should ask, what will you do for a husband?
We’ll take care of it.
Your horn is a foot long, and I’m at least that size.
Tonight we’ll have dinner.
I’ll give it back to you.
Let’s say goodbye to him.
She sent Dromio to bring you home for lunch.
Let me talk, good lady.
Why are you asking me that?
Me, uncle?
Oh, it’s horrible, horrible, so horrible!
Do you hear me?
Your Grace can do whatever he wants.
The one who chooses me will get what he deserves”!
So that England may live a long life like this, let God say amen!
Now, Baptista, let’s turn to your younger daughter.
It’s “never get tired.” Oh!
No, longer than that.
Should we go inside?
Understand?
If I’m going to sing along with you, I need to know what key you’re singing in.
Hopefully when I get married, I’ll give my husband half my love and half my sense of duty.
Call up the Master Constable Dogberry.
If you could please stop fooling around, I’ll tell you what your mother wants.
And you have mercy on me too!
If it were me, I’d be very upset too.
Get out of here.
Where do you come from, sir?
I heard the news, my lord.
I repeat, spread the rumor that Anne, my wife, is sick and likely to die.
Good-bye, son.
You may as well undertake to be hanged.
Why, because we’re always handling our ewes, and their fleece, as you know, is greasy.
I leave him in your care—but oh, if only I were still in his favor I could arrange for better care for him.
Please, follow straight after me.
Fake, I’m telling you.
What’s this, you dog?
The whole town will riot!
Who’s next?  
Will it be in thunder, lightning, or rain?
My services are at your command.
Oh, Charmian, I will never leave this tomb!
I won’t take it back.
I don’t understand.
I mean please go into the house, sir.
Lovers, it’s time to go to bed.
I bet she’s fast asleep.
Give her this key, and tell her that there’s money in the desk that’s covered with a Turkish tapestry.
So let me hear what you have to say.
I’ve had to acknowledge that he’s my son so many times that now I can do it without embarrassment.
I got it from him.
I’m never in the mood to laugh when I hear sweet music.
Aren’t the others waiting for me, Cinna?
Don’t be upset.
But I will tell you this very plainly
I would gladly do without that if he would only stay faithful to me.
Gregory, remember how to slash.
Well, sir, go inside.
Give me your hand, sir.
Though I wish you were dead, I’m not going to be the one to kill you.
They eat us up hungrily, and when they’re full, they vomit us up.
If you’re Trinculo, then come out.
You’re right, actually.
Then I’ll water all those precious herbs with my tears to make them grow.
You say he’s friendly with Caesar, healthy, and free.
Haven’t you made your other love, Demetrius—who kicked me with his foot not long ago—call me a goddess and a divine, rare, precious, heavenly creature?
justice will be rewarded.
Caesar’s speed defies belief.
I beg your pardon, sirs.—Please tell me your name, sir?
Let’s go, we’ll obey you.
I’ve stayed up all night many times before for less important matters, and I’ve never gotten sick.
She went from me, who loved her with the dignity and devotion that suits a legitimate marriage, to a wretch whose natural gifts were poor compared to mine.
Will you do that for me, Silvius?
His courage is hidden, and when it is revealed, it will shrink.
Le Roy?
Her heart is carrying a heavy weight.
person when you’re ready, if you’re inclined.
Speak plainly.
How can it seem like I’m making fun of you, when my tears prove that I’m sincere?
And then she brought me up, and I thank her for that, too.
Your two sons?
Go back to where you’re staying and go to sleep.
She’s not feeling well.
And when some lowlife protests that  Stop, and eat no more.
Let him hoist you up in front of the shouting crowds!
Look what I have here.
No, my lord, that was me.
He has come to kill my heart.
My lord, good morning.
Let’s go find that hussy, Fortune, and and mock her till she starts distributing her gifts more equally.
If I let myself do what I yearn to, I’d rip the flesh off your bones.
Thieves!
Well, I’ll go hide the body in some hole until the duke gives orders for his burial.
Do you really speak like such a gentleman?
Everything that belongs to them is yours.
And now I’m going to leave your despised company.
My lord acts just as crazy with love as you do.
Dear woman, you don’t know the rules of charity.
And it’s too bad that the Moor chose a man with such a deep-rooted drinking problem as his second-in-command.
We have to go out and talk to them.
No, in its tongue.
But how is it possible that Prospero’s alive and well and living on this island?  
Don’t bother with it.
I remember very well where I should be, and here I am.
It’s gone.
You’re a cobbler, are you?
Amen!
Conspiracies, fakery, betrayal, and disorder are all that’s left until we die.
I’ll take the banner from a trumpeter and use that.
Oh, I’m sure you don’t dislike him so much as to wish he were here alone, even though you say this to find out how the rest of us feel.
I’ve already told you quite plainly that my daughter will never marry you.
Have some of my servants take care of Malvolio.
So, by Christ, I’ll cut off your head.
Did this fool with the yellow face feast and celebrate in my house today while the guilty doors shut in my face and locked me out of my own house?
What do you think?
Please let me know your plan, Bassanio.
What do you think, Norfolk?
He’s really taken this prank to heart.
Come, come, we’re worrying about the worst-case scenario.
Or just a foretaste of it?
Don’t joke about this, Enobarbus.
Could you tell me how near the enemy is?
No, taking you away from your new marriage would be like showing a child a new coat and then not letting him wear it.
He’s got an answer for everything.
Yes, indeed, it was, and he pushed it away three times, each time more gently than the last; and at each refusal my countrymen shouted.
He died like someone who had practiced how to toss away his most cherished possession as if it were a worthless a piece of garbage.
There was no limit to what his lustful eye and savage heart would prey on.
You’re right—I’ll go quietly.
I wish she were in her coffin here, with the ducats in her coffin!
Therefore tell me, fairest Katherine, will you have me?
The moon’s bright tonight.
Again!
So listen up, princess.
As far as I know, he’s okay and will arrive here soon.
Yes, sir, it’s all too true, God help us.
Don’t say anything else.
Six or seven thousand, at most.
I did that to him.
What can I tell you?
Come to my cave and tell me the rest of your story.—Good old man, you are as welcome here as your master is.
There’s hardly a bush for miles around.
My husband will never get a moment’s rest, I’ll keep him up at night talking about you until he runs out
I wish there wasn’t so much dew on the ground.
I don’t dare come down—forgive me, my lord—I don’t dare, for fear of capture.
God bless the island of Cyprus and our noble general Othello!
But did I fall or not?
If love has touched you, love has touched you—end of story.
Has he ever tested out these ideas on you before?
If he has my father’s love, then that’s enough honor for me.
Hey, are you biting your thumb at us?
I won’t deny him anything of mine, including my own body and my husband’s bed.
When you begged to stay, that was the time for words.
Absolutely.
If I can bear that pain, then I can bear my husband’s secrets.
Listen, listen to what I say
Forgive us, my lord.
This fight will decide who dies.
Coward!
Some dungeon.
Never, my lord.
No, I don’t—except as a friend.
Your cheeks are too flushed for me to believe that was a fake faint.
I’m surprised my bland husband didn’t meet me on the way here.
Take it, brave York.
Tell me, you monster, where is my son Lucentio?
After such a long period of grief, we will have such a celebration!
But my eyes, which I’ve darted at you, haven’t even left a mark.
I knew there would be a masquerade when I got that bad omen of a bloody nose last Easter Monday, at six in the morning, four years after I got the same kind of bloody nose on Ash Wednesday, in the afternoon.
Oh, let me speak!
Look in the almanac.
That’s treason!
I can remember the past seventy years pretty well, and in all that time I have seen dreadful hours and strange things.
A dog from that house will make me angry enough to take a stand.
I rejoice in his good fortune.
Come with me and let me advise you.
If you’ve been ordered back to Venice because of my father, don’t blame me.
Prepare the body, then, and follow us.
Where is my gracious lord of Canterbury?
Don’t ask why.
Don’t bring me any more reports.
My sweet husband, I did not lock you out.
Let me gather my wits and get serious here.
My mind is confused.
That awful, plodding rhyme sounded like a row of dairy women stomping off to market.
Well, he’s alive.
But back to that argument you mentioned.
Why should I stay— In this vile world?
I’d prefer to keep my mistress rather than some lame horse.
Why, sir, he’s not coming.
Indeed, before he fell down, when he realized the commoners were glad he refused the crown, he pulled open his robe and offered them his throat to cut.
Get up and listen to me.
All these quarrels are about me.
God be with you.
Bassanio, we’ll say goodbye for now, since you’ve found Antonio.
This king is a branch of that same victorious stock.
It’s true, that wasn’t such a nice thing to do.
You should know, my loving lord, I’ve heard that the marquess Dorset has fled to Brittany, to the earl of Richmond.
That light we see is coming from my hall.
He doesn’t miss a thing.
Why do you say that?
Amen.
Tomorrow, I’ll let you know what I’ve decided and what answer you should deliver to the king of England.
Well, what do you guess?
What’s the matter, husband?
Pluck off colorful butterfly wings, and use them to fan moonbeams away from his eyes as he sleeps.
What, is today a holiday?
Did he stare at you?
But I promise it can be cured with some guidance.
Now I’ll stand up.
Since I was so drawn to studying things like logic, grammar, geometry, and astronomy, I let my control of the government slide a bit, being too wrapped up in my occult books.
My name is Hortensio, sir.
Run off, go visit fairs and festivals!
How ingenious to make horseshoes out of felt.
From what, in God’s name?
Your brothers?
They plan to spend the night in Sardis.
Take them away.
Too late is more like it.
Most noble Caesar!
Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
I say it’s the moon.
On me, though I am limping and deformed?
Oh, but these are our friends.
Bassanio gave his ring to the judge who asked for it, and deserved it too.
Oh, Caesar, read mine first, for my petition affects you more directly.
At least I don’t have a horse for my mistress—or a saying so beside the point.
Then I guess the whole world is one.
Sirs, I ask you to sleep in my tent.
She can turn and turn, and then turn on you again.
If you’re calling me Jephthah, my lord, I do have a daughter I love more than anything, yes.
Stop—if you can’t be kind, at least have some shame.
What do you say?
She has a body, not a life.
That’s like building a bridge wider than the river it crosses.
But a stronger pity, for the wrongs committed against Rome, drove out our pity for Caesar, as fire drives out fire, and so we killed him.
Good father, I’m begging you on my knees, be patient and listen to me say just one thing.
Are they likely to get dusty?
Do they seem religious?
Make us your agents of revenge, so we can praise you when we’re victorious!
It was just moments ago.
Here, take away the dish.
Come with me, and let’s smother my fiendish son—who smothered your two sweet sons—in bitter words.
Yes, sir.
Or stuff what he says into their pockets.
Yeah, right—you sent me to get whipped.
Seriously, cousin, I love a woman.
There he is!
No, this fun is not for me.
It’s time for us to stand guard.
It doesn’t get seen enough; you should wear it in your cap, the way fools wear coxcombs.
Very well.
I was his daughter when your Highness took my father’s dukedom.
Maybe until after Theseus’s wedding day.
If our criminal master gets off free, I won’t care what happens to me anymore.
My lord is so heavy!
No, noble Romeo, you’ve got to dance.
But a dream itself is just a shadow.
I thank you, Sir John, with all my heart.
I’ve heard many of the noblest Romans—next to immortal Caesar—speaking of you, complaining of the tyranny of today’s government, and wishing that your eyes were working better.
Well, let’s go on.
Hello, good sir.
I’m a fool.—Let’s go, Lorenzo.—Goodbye for now.
I’ll make you an example for the others to learn from.
But I can’t play a melody.
We three couples will celebrate with a sumptuous feast.
Why Dover?
Oh, ceremony, only show me your value!
Yours, Claudio, yours, I say.
I have bankrupted three tailors.
If there is, then heaven help him!
You’ve offered an excellent interpretation.
Farewell, good Salisbury; and may good luck go with you.
Dearest, kindest, most honorable sir, may I say, with your esteemed approval, which is lit up by the illuminating radiance of the sun-god Phoebus, that— What do you mean by that?
Let’s hope his sense of shame will send him back to Rome quickly.
And to you, most noble Caesar.
My lord?
Dying, sleeping—that’s all dying is—a sleep that ends all the heartache and shocks that life on earth gives us—that’s an achievement to wish for.
If I said something, she’d mock me so mercilessly that I’d probably disintegrate into air.
Everyone keeps yelling, “Here they come!” Our castle is strong enough to laugh off their seige.
This is just a trifling matter here, sir.
But let him start off easy by killing one of us.
So I will, my liege.
You mean their  Cut off their heads, take their maidenheads—whatever.
Tell me seriously, who is the one you love?
I have.
Tell me what you are.
Here, sir!
Yes indeed it is, sir.
The reason I think he’s insane, besides the way he just acted, is that he told a senseless story over lunch about being locked out of his own house.
The duke will drink under this tree.—He’s been looking for you all day, you know.
Anyone who wants to separate us will have to smoke us out of the cave of our togetherness like foxes.
Humble greetings, great master!
You’re not taking one step toward an enemy.
Well, when I cut the egg in half and eat the whites, the yolk will be in two parts like two golden crowns.
What, was I married to her in a dream?
Not until we part as friends.
Now that’s done, I’m going to walk on the fortification walls.
It won’t be long before I’m back.
But Audrey, there’s a boy in the forest who claims you’re his girl.
Excuse me, sir.— Tom’s chilly.
My king says this
So stop crying.
Welcome back!
I’ve only made it this far since I left her place, walking at a moderate pace.
Tie him to this chair.—You’ll see, criminal— By the gods, it’s disgraceful for you to pull my beard.
By the light of heaven, no, I would not!
He left behind myself and my twin sister, who was born in the same hour as me.
Look at you!
I think few die well who die in battle.
I wish I had!
Was someone as beautiful as you meant to be a whore?
Stay, Jaques, stay here for a bit.
Later, in a better world than this, I’d love to get to know you.
Oh, so madmen like you are also deaf.
May they relieve a sick old man’s suffering.
But who was that man?
Tell us about the letters that you got from France.
I won’t have any of this.
What are you saying, Cordelia?
Stop fooling around.
Tell me that I’ll marry three kings before noon and be widowed by all of them.
No, keep flattery for kissing the hands of those who can pay well.
Go ahead.
Tell me to run, and I’ll run.
This is the day I’m going to get what I wished for when I wished that the person I most trusted would betray me.
Demetrius loves her, and he doesn’t love you.
No, I won’t stay a second longer.
You wouldn’t know enough to be afraid of traps.
You can’t mean it, Tranio!
If you weren’t my brother, I’d leave this hand of mine on your neck until I’d pulled out your tongue for talking like this.
His horse is better than the Neapolitan’s and he frowns more than the Count Palatine.
Let go of his arm.
To tell the truth, though, I think the duke hasn’t lost a single man, except for one who will probably be executed for robbing a church, one Bardolph—I don’t know if your Majesty knows the man.
Get out, you dark-skinned gypsy!
Well, we’ll see how you act.
But what can be done to prevent it?
If Caesar chose, Antony would jump at the chance to be his friend.
Mistress, both the man and his master are possessed.
You were one of his favorites.
What, are you moaning on about your toothache?
What are you doing here alone?
If you’re going to die, be quick about it so you can catch the king’s departing soul or follow him, like obedient subjects, to his new kingdom of endless night.
The rest of my life will be nothing but bitterness.
What, my dear lord?
By eight o'clock.
What, I have to hold a candle up so people can see what I’m doing?
Just let me follow behind you, even though I’m not good enough for you.
Good day to you, sir.
But please tell me, sir, is your marriage  Let him do his worst.
Please, sir, be patient.
I hate it when I hear a blustery actor in a wig tear a passion to shreds, bursting everyone’s eardrums so as to impress the audience on the lower levels of the playhouse, who for the most part can only appreciate loud noises and pantomime shows.
You’re right.
And that’s what you want me to do!
Give me your hand.
I heard him groan—yes, I did—and the same tongue that ordered the Romans to obey him and transcribe his speeches in their books cried, “Give me some water, Titinius,” like a sick girl.
Yes, and his relative, too.
We have feelings.
Get out of my sight!
Oh wise judge!
But, sir— Why should you do this, you want to know?
She’s no longer my daughter, and I’ll never see her face again.
Do you love me?
Be kind and polite to this gentleman.
If you can’t remember the stupidest little thing love made you do, you haven’t loved.
I hope heaven protects him from the weather, because I lost sight of him on the stormy sea.
There was no Signior Montanto in our army.
There was no harm, I’m telling you.
If he’s not in love with a woman, then you can’t trust the usual symptoms.
Is all of this about your father?
Oh yes, sir, I have often been to Pisa—Pisa, City of Wise Men.
To Brutus’s, to Cassius’s, let’s burn them all.
Please, tell me your cure.
Please, just look over there.
What garment would your Honor like to wear today?
The thane of Fife had a wife.
That’s how we’ll do it, then.
Is she as fiery a shrew as they say?
I swear to her that I haven’t, but it doesn’t change anything.
All women would be angry with you for doing it, even though I’m the only one who’s hurt by it.
The poor thing, he is so shaken with a fever that it’s terrible to see.
We will wait on you, your majesty.
No metal—not even the executioner’s axe—could ever be half as sharp as your hatred.
Startle even the sky with the sound of your lances cracking.
I’ll come see you right away.
Which one of you killed the deer?
See, ladies, how they scorn me now.
Come on!
But never mind.
But please don’t let any of your people wake me up.
I’m dying to hear your life story, which must be a strange tale.
I’m telling you, it’s not lost.
Peter, wait for me at the gate.
An illicit kiss!
It’s time for me to say goodbye to you.
Sir, please, don’t be angry.
Welcome back from Mantua.
Since your woes are only a portion of mine, I have every reason to surpass your lamentations and drown out your cries with my own.
And let us swear to our resolution.
Young though I am, I’ve been observing these three blowhards closely.
Give me comfort.
Some should go to the public platforms and cry out, “Liberty, freedom, and democracy!” People and senators, don’t be afraid.
Because, if you must know, she’s been chosen by Signior Gremio.
Let’s not get gloomy in our reminiscing, since there’s no reason for sadness anymore.
God doesn’t need to use indirect or illegal means to kill those who have offended him.
When the vision passes, you’ll see that you’re just looking at a stool.
I won’t pretend to be the devil’s porter anymore.
I have a daughter.
Only when they’re dead can I start to count my gains.
The demon Hoppedance is in Tom’s belly, crying for some fish to eat.
When he’s there next time, I’ll send my daughter to see him.
Why are you yelling at me so angrily?
Haven’t I resisted even Brutus, begging from his knees?
Don’t shed any blood, or cut less or more than exactly a pound of flesh.
Please, get some excellent music, because tomorrow we want to serenade Lady Hero at her bedroom window.
I won’t beg the gods to punish you, or caution you to fear their judgment.
Why, no, sir.
Quick, let’s hide, my lord.
I’m not here.
Give me the gown.
Speak confidently.
I won’t bet on whether or not any of this is real.
Goodbye, old friend.
I’m no less noble than you are, Edmund.
I’ll join you, sir.
I’m going to let him live.
Cousin, you didn’t used to be so thickheaded.
I will settle this matter. 
Madam, I will.
No, Pompey, I haven’t had anything to drink.
The silk came from sacred silkworms, and it was dyed with fluid made from embalmed virgins' hearts.
Twenty crowns.
Cut yourself?
You have to come with me.
Thank you.
How are you doing?
The wound can’t be that bad.
Even my hair revolts.
Do you know why the nose is in the middle of a person’s face?
I refuse to accept that.
If they let you off, then we’ll have to assume that Lady Justice has lost all her power.
Often I have heard of “sanctuary men,” but until now I’ve never heard of “sanctuary children.” My lord, you’ve won me over this time.
Yes, you did.
Are you talking about Caesar?
Here’s Decius Brutus.
You’re a villain!
If I can trust my dreams, then some joyful news is coming soon.
I’m just sorry I had to be the one to kill him.
I’d feel sorry for them, if I were human.
I’m very afraid of Banquo.
Is that a tradition?
Should I strike it with my spear?
What do you mean, lady?
Don’t worry about how I handle it.
If you let her go this easily, Sir Andrew, you don’t deserve to ever use your sword again.
I’ll show you how kind I am.
I could imagine he’s divine, since I never saw anything so noble-looking on earth before.
Maybe it’s an English tailor who liked to skimp on the fabric for people’s clothes.
This is a classic example of the idiocy of the world
Come, Grey.
Give me your arm.
The rules of dueling say he has to.
Come shake hands with Laertes, Hamlet.
According to the laws of war, you didn’t have to fight a stranger.
Give me some ink and paper.
Again, goodbye.
I wonder if you’d be so good, you lousy, rotten villain, to grant my wish and my request and gratify me, see, by eating this leek.
Who are the people who want to speak with me?
Richard Earl of Cambridge, I arrest you for high treason.
Where is he staying?
Take me inside some house, Benvolio, or I’ll pass out.
What do you think about Thursday?
Oh my God, what a terrible world this is!
Start without me.
Does a madman scare me when he stares at me?
Me too.
She’ll confirm everything.
Well, explain—but do it fast so that your puny store of kindness isn’t used up by talking about it.
Isn’t he here?
She seemed to be trying to control her emotions, which were overwhelming her.
To hell with you!
To show you that that’s me, let me prove it a little even in this case.
Better late than never—and it’s never too late to change.
Tomorrow, Caesar, I’ll be able to tell you what land and sea forces I can raise for this war.
I feel awful for my cousin.
Fair princess, you’ve missed some good sport.
The lady has died because of the false accusations of me and my master.
He doesn’t speak Latin, French, or Italian, and you know how little English I speak.
And you say he’s not jealous?
Whether your mouth is black or white, Do-dee, dee-dee da.
Fled to England?
I hear that Edgar, Gloucester’s exiled son, is with the Earl of Kent in Germany.
It’s time we hit the road.
By the way, I’m going home tomorrow, Sir Toby.
The prince has done neither; therefore, in my opinion, he isn’t really protected by sanctuary.
Oh, that’s with worry.
The Emperor is calling for Canidius.
Here’s the story we’ll tell her
I knew your father.
Robin Starveling, the tailor?
Would I ever deny you anything?
Don’t drive me crazy with curiosity, but tell me why your church-buried bones have burst out of their coffin, and why your tomb,
There’s another.
I swear that nothing anyone can say will change my mind.
But if you were married, you’d wield some influence.
Are you trying to sleep with him?
Good night, madam.
Who’s there?
You’re    Pull out your tool now.
Follow that gentleman now, and be careful not to make fun of him.
Agreed.
Why shouldn’t she take my hand, father?
Yes, a thousand times.
Give me the letter.
I’m the one who— I’ll get right on that.
Keep going, keep going, or I’ll declare myself the winner.
I know how  Too light for a lout like you to catch—though no lighter than I should be.
So he’s dead?
This poor virgin isn’t much to look at, sir, but she’s mine.
I went to many places where I heard news about her, but I couldn’t find her.
You’ll find Beatrice there, talking to Claudio and the Prince.
I’ll fight at sea.
We’ll meet you at sea.
Before you got so angry, I never would have thought that.
Oh, sir, someone would think I was a good fake.
Tom will chase them off.—Go away, you mongrels!
Oh, I wish I could make a  My soul is calling out my name.
What do you think?
Let’s dance to “You Jerk.” You mean, “Shut up, you jerk”?
Caesar greets the Queen of Egypt and asks that you consider what you will ask from him.
That’s why your desires are wolfish, bloody, and ravenous.
They should get to bed early and get plenty of sleep.
Check and see if he’s breathing.
By the door.
I’ll get you for that.
Queen, you knew very well that my heart was tied to your ship and that you would pull me along with you.
Let’s act quickly.
It’s always like this in times of change.
Did he tell Macduff to return to Scotland?
Pompey, you cannot frighten us with your navy.
Come on, you keep getting paler.
Damn you, don’t mock and sneer at me.
If you had foul words in your mouth, then your breath must be foul, and foul breath is nauseating.
Well done!
Good morning to you both.
Take this!
Whom should I knock?
Have you ever slept before while such a terrible deed was done?
Honestly, it’s not as good as the other one, and I’m sure your cousin will agree with me.
Well, not in deed, madam, since I can’t do anything unchaste.
Put a lot of cash together.
Nerissa’s got the right idea.
I sneeze on your manhood.
Ah, where’s my servant?—Give me some brandy.—These griefs, these pains, these sorrows make me old.
If you can love me for this, take me.
We’ll have the wedding at the church tomorrow.
I say she shall.—And first begin with her.
Not me.
If you’re the lady of the house, then it’s true you’re stealing your role, because what’s yours to give away is not yours to keep for yourself.
Caesar, I will.
Your authorization is ready.
Sadness takes away our color.
That’s the weakness I’ll use to get revenge on him.
If you are a devil, I won’t be able to kill you.
I don’t hear anything, madam.
This is that time.
Search high and low, in every acre of the fields, and bring him here for me to see him.
But it can’t help either!
Order them to escape.
Dido was from Carthage, not Tunis.
Stanley, what news do you have?
What else did you hear?
I’ve changed my mind now and partly believe in omens.
I’ll have no halves.
God give you joy, Petruchio.
Have you heard anything to the contrary?
I said so, dear Katherine, and I’m not ashamed to repeat it.
I hope that God restores you to health.
They’re good enough to drink in, and so are these boots.
Fresh beauty attracts thugs and thieves even more than money.
Well, there they are.
Just a moment.
It’s your turn now.
Oh, immortal gods!
Enjoy your frankness; it suits you.
You lying brat.
Wasn’t he born from a woman?
To race after your departing ships, leaving his navy to watch, was a shame as great as the resulting loss.
Why did you send so many?
I hope it doesn’t make me unchaste that I really want to be a married woman.
No, the one I gave you.
It’s a messenger from the warships.
All right, I will.
No–the law goes further
Her fallow fields are overgrown with weeds, while the blade that should uproot such wilderness lies rusting.
I’m just wandering, with no particular destination.
The life”?
No drugs or sleeping pills will ever give you the restful sleep that you had last night.
Look, here are the boxes, prince.
Go in, or we’re done for.
No, it heals gradually.
Tybalt is dead, and Romeo has been banished.”
You’re not supposed to get old until you’re wise.
Come on, you’re fooling yourself.
Dear master, I can’t go any farther.
Dear general, I never gave you any reason to hate me.
Don’t make me do it, my lady.
Now, Death, you can boast that you have an incomparable girl in your possession.
Yes, if a woman grows up to be a man.
Ha!
If that is not granted, he reduces his requests and asks only that he be allowed to live as a private man in Athens.
Said what, sir?
An old Italian fox is never that generous, my boy.
Yes, my lord.
If you choose that one, I’m yours, along with the picture.
Good evening, brother.
Believe me, I’m sorry you’re in pain.
Orlando?
Heaven knows I am.
Don’t be afraid.
Wait, and listen to me, countrymen.
Madam, I’d rather sew my lips shut than tell a lie when my life depends upon it.
You will never be able to say the same about me.
Both, both, my girl.
Now there can only be the promise.
Goodbye, Launcelot.
Look
Where’s your sparkle now?
My son will win.
But here comes Antony.—Welcome, Mark Antony.
I promise.
What’s the news?
If this young gentleman has offended you, I’ll take the blame for it.
Do you know Captain Gower?
Yes, my lord.
It’s true.
A snail?
Has it come to this?
He has the wisdom to act bravely but also safely.
We’ll see our husbands before they even have a chance to miss us.
He loves Caesar best, but he also loves Antony.
He says more in one minute than he does in a whole month.
Let’s draw our own swords too.
You understand?
Tear him apart, tear him up!
We’ll go forward with you and meet them at Philippi.
Go to him, Sir Topas.
Will our army cut a swath through the fighting force of France, achieving and accomplishing everything I’ve assembled them to do?
God bless my old master.
Me, sir?
Who’s closest to him?
Hey, let’s have some music here!
I surrender your dukedom and beg you to forgive me all my crimes.
Christ, it’s a disaster.
I must tell you then.
But  Hello, my lord, how have you been doing lately?
I’m going to England.
Yes, a little too sweet.
If the job had been painful, I would not have come.
It is three o'clock, and, Romans, before night, we will try our luck in a second battle.
You don’t know what money can buy.
Let heaven be my witness—I’m putting my mind, my heart, and my hands in Othello’s control.
I’d heard about my brother’s plan and have been subtly trying to change his mind, but he’s determined.
He did, and I gave it to him.
Good madam, restrain yourself.
From soldiers.
You go and talk to the duke so he won’t notice I’m helping the king.
In my soul, I believe Hero has been falsely accused.
I had come to the deepest part of my tale, and I planned to say nothing more on the topic.
What?
Good—here’s the stretcher.
Go tell the priests to perform a sacrifice immediately, and bring me their interpretation of the results.
Poor Antony!
Come this way, my lord.
So beware of my contempt, and keep your promise.
My master’s decision.
Come on, Desdemona, I’ve only got an hour of love to spend with you, to tell you what you need to do.
Well, I won’t.
In the fact that it’s solitary, I enjoy it very much; but in the sense that it’s private, it’s terrible.
It persuades you and discourages you.
That’s really news!
I’ll go look for him—Cassio, stay around here.
I did.
That it was, sir.
Come here, good Volumnius.
But if you fail, you have to leave immediately.
I hate my name, dear saint, because my name is your enemy.
Your vote will be as strong as anyone’s in the reordering of the government.
Absolutely not.
A ship you sent me to find, to book passage out of here.
Tyrrel, come back shortly after dinner and tell me the details of their deaths.
You’d break a date with your beloved by a whole hour?
These are frightening odds.
God have mercy on us!
This guy is exactly the kind of person your sister warned us about.—Come on, bring in the stocks, now!
Strato, you’ve slept this whole time.
Clouds, dissolve into rain, so that I could say the gods themselves are weeping!
Before I fall asleep, I entrust my soul to you.
Set him free.
In suicide, gods allow tyrants to be defeated.
I swear, old fools become like babies again.
Why didn’t the jerk come back to me when I called him?
Who do you want to work for?
But tell me this
Why do you look so upset?
Look, sir, I’m bleeding.
In the high and mighty Roman Empire, just before the emperor Julius Caesar was assassinated, corpses rose out of their graves and ran through the streets of Rome speaking gibberish.
The king is virtuous and kind.
It’s best just to let him go.
Thank you, master.
No words can express the pain.
He is.
First, you have to speak to the watchmen who accused them.
Tell me that you’ll accept my love.
If Duncan bleeds I’ll paint the servants' faces with his blood.
Call the messenger in.
The business you began here needs you as well—especially the business with Cleopatra, which only you can attend to.
Oh, Fate, come, come to me, with hands as pale as milk.
Then I could stop wondering, and find some other career.
Look!
But I still believe that his madness was caused by unrequited love.—Hello, Ophelia.
I’ll go, sir, and I won’t bother you.
I will not rise until your Highness hears me.
One last thing, and this is up to you.
Go, lad, and find out what the trumpet’s sounding for.
Where’s that snake?
Many thanks, Signior Gremio.
From then on we’ll turn our backs on Athens.
What are you talking about, man?
You know that Banquo and his son Fleance are still alive.
Why did Cassius conspire against Caesar?
Sweetheart!
That’s right, uncle, talk to your heart, like the  Good morning to you both.
And that’s true—he  Then I pleaded for you.
And now, let’s turn to our business with the French.
What, I’m a prisoner?
It’s a good thing I’m like a little pot and warm up quickly, or else my lips themselves would freeze and stick to my teeth, my tongue to the roof of my mouth, and my heart would freeze in my belly, before I managed to get thawed out.
Oh my, Oh my!
Who sent you here?
But be quiet, here comes Thisbe.
My sister would be much more offended to have her trusted messenger abused and assaulted just for carrying out her orders.—Put his legs in the stocks.
He’s as smart as they come, but just a jester.
What are you fighting about?
I am dying!—My lord, you still have one eye left to see Cornwall punished.
And she is very smart.
The oars were made of silver, and the oarsmen rowed in time to flute music.
Greetings, dearest Caesar!
I eat the air, like chameleons do.
Let’s go, Menas.
Look how the moon seems to be sleeping with its lover and can’t be awoken!
I’ll read it to you.
I have a wife I love.
I’ve sworn I’ll never sleep with him or talk to him again.
They say you are a melancholy fellow.
Come on, shovel.
I mean, with my head in your lap?
My lady Olivia, your niece, disapproves of your late-night partying.
Hello, my friends!
Let me destroy myself, let heaven and destiny deprive me of happy hours, let day remain dark and night sleepless, and let me have nothing but terrible luck if I do not love with a pure heart, clean devotion, and holy thoughts your beautiful royal daughter.
And should everyone who makes promises and breaks them be hanged?
Stop arguing and listen to my plans.
What does my hidden wife say about our ruined love?
We were about to have our noses snapped off by two old men with no teeth.
I’d rather carry a reed that obviously can’t protect me than a sword I cannot lift.
Neither the sky nor the earth have been quiet tonight.
This letter from Bellario introduces us to a young and well-educated legal expert.
Wake up, sir, wake up.
The king has strictly forbidden it.
Where is that moron of a cook?
Let me see what he looks like, so when I see another man who resembles him, I’ll know to avoid him.
I wish you were someone else’s son.
How is it that you’ve come back so soon?
He told us to arrange it.
It’s not fair to punish me for something you make me do.
For shame!
No one will listen to it.
Let’s put our heads together.
Let the gods who stirred up this dreadful storm bring their enemies to light.
Let’s sit here on the church bench until two and then go off to bed.
We’re all waiting for the revenge!  
You too, Fabian.
Yes, I forgot—three months. 
Is she as tall as I am?
Well, I’m not beautiful, so I hope that I can at least be chaste.
Tell me.
I must be one of these silent so-called wise men Gratiano’s talking about, because he never lets me get a word in.
Caesar?
Is it a weakness?
Leave Hermia alone.
Then that’s the way it may turn out.
But I’m old now, and suffering has weakened me.
No, I think there’s more to this than you’re letting on.
There never was a monarch better feared and loved than yourself, your Majesty.
Oh, come on, woman.
Oh, he’s drunk, Sir Toby, for a whole hour now.
Goodnight, Michael.
I’ve come to say farewell to my king and master.
It’s him, it’s him.
Oh, heaven help us!
There’s a picture of me inside.
Please wait.
Where will the old duke live?
Yes, my lord.
Where are you hiding?
We’re ready for both, my lord.
And yet I think you look with your eyes just like every other woman does.
Therefore, love each other in moderation.
You both know Banquo was your enemy.
How is your majesty doing?
Now tell me how long you intend to keep her.
Procreation is a good thing, but if your daughter gets pregnant … look out, friend.
Would you walk out with me, sir?—Oh, Desdemona— Yes, my lord?
Hello, Roderigo!
Excuse me, weren’t you with Countess Olivia just now?
She’ll be damned for it.
For you to do it would be good service.
And when has he ever been known to wash his face?
Come on, give me your best shot.
What was it?
I’m off, my lord.
You should get a wife!
And that’s how my brother robbed me of my life, my crown, and my queen all at once.
Pardon my crime, sovereign, but not my person.
He’s just Launcelot.
My lord?
You’ve stolen both my job and my name!
And when she is peevish and perverse, sullen, sour, and disobedient to his honest wishes, what is she but a loathsome, warlike rebel and an ungrateful traitor to her loving lord?
Won’t King Richard let me speak with him?
Who do you mean?
I humbly say goodbye.
Since I was three years old, I’ve been in contact with a powerful but virtuous magician—no black magic here.
Yes, my lord.
You didn’t go to sleep, then?
What a tunneler!
What would you have said, my young York?
I have sent for the strawberries.
Isn’t he the one who’s always,” and so on.
I honor him for being brave.
Amen.
So you couldn’t see his face, then?
We grew together like twin cherries—which seemed to be separate but were also together—two lovely cherries on one stem. 
If you’re someone who gets into fights, I’ll fight with you.
Insolent  Oh, the good gods!
That was a fine fanfare, boys.
I know they do, and I certainly deserve it.
Look around you, Caesar.
Looking toward England, we reminisced about the countless frightening experiences we’d had in the wars between the Yorks and the Lancasters.
She was your boot-wearing mistress and your warrior lover, and now that she’s getting married to Theseus, you’ve come to celebrate their marriage.
I have money in my purse and property at home, so I’m off to see the world.
Please, please tell me!
Indeed?
Where did you hear this?
All right, sir, I will.
I’ll be vain and proud, I’ll read up on politics, I’ll insult Sir Toby, I’ll get rid of my lower-class friends, and I’ll be the perfect man for her.
We came into the world as brother and brother, so now let’s enter hand in hand—not one before the other.
Harry le Roy.
You stole it from her?
I’ll wait till his beard grows in, if you’ll just hurry up and tell me what chin that beard is on.
Are you so patient and forgiving that you’re going to let him off the hook?
Oh Lorenzo, if you keep your promise to me, I’ll end this agony by becoming a Christian and marrying you.
Either Charles or some prettier thing has mastered you.
As for your coming in to dinner, just do what you feel is right.
Hurry, you slave!
Bring ink and paper, Charmian.
Well, to be on the safe side—so I don’t go back on my promise—I plan to get myself married to a wealthy widow within the next three days.
I’m sure his majesty will recover his health soon.
Your joke is a very bitter apple.
Picture the mayor and all his brother citizens dressed in their best as they go forth like senators of ancient Rome to welcome home their conquering Caesar.
The man in the moon!
Well, I won’t take it any longer.
Cut my corset laces, Charmian, so I can breathe.
Tut, tut, you’ve become rather icy.
There are many troubles brewing now that have yet to become full-fledged threats.  
Sing my praises to your mistress.
Well, if you don’t, then I’m out of here.
Regarding the Dauphin, you can speak to me.
Stop right there!
So you’re telling me to give it time and wait for summer.
So please, most gracious duke, order her to bring him out so we can get him some help.
Whoever is born on a day I forget to send a message to Antony will die a beggar.
Justice, find the girl!
No, not for all of Venice.
I’m to blame for making you wait for me.
Now let me see if I can translate it.
Is there anything else you wish?
So give me my nightgown, Emilia, and I’ll say goodnight.
I wouldn’t do it for a nice ring, or fine linen, or pretty gowns or petticoats or hats.
Oh, madam, my old heart is broken, broken.
You have offered me the lands of Sicily and Sardinia.
On the condition that your sister’s son, Publius, also must die, Mark Antony.
They stared at us in confusion.
Out, out, brief candle.
Please come with me.
But you have all the advantages from the harm done.
The clock hasn’t struck yet.
What a righteous judge!
I swear to God, madam, you’ve wronged me, and I’ll tell the whole world.
Welcome, good Cambio.
Yes, I think that’s true.
The rain, the wind, the thunder and lightning are not my daughters.
Stop, brave lady, stop!
Yes, Celia, we kept her here for your sake.
But don’t think I’m doing this because I’m greedy.
No, not him, though his face is more handsome than any man’s, and his legs are prettier, and as for his hands and feet and body, they’re not much to speak of, and yet they’re beyond compare.
There was a time when you’d freely tell me that words were never music to your ear unless I said them, that objects never pleased your eye unless I showed them to you, that touches never pleased your hands unless they were my touches, and that food never tasted sweet to you unless I had prepared it.
But I need to remember I’m related to him by blood, not behavior.
Lucius, who’s that knocking?
Lights, lights, get us some lights!
What is there left to do?
Yes, but they don’t see anything.
Apparently you think there’s nothing unusual about a bloody head.
The heavens are being stingy with their light.
I’m coming, I’m coming!
It’s a deal!
Because that’s what you are now.
If it pleases Caesar to be so good to himself as to hear me, I’ll try to get him to do what’s good for him.
I think we’ll have to leave out all the killing, come to think of it.
You don’t know?
Your brother Don John the Bastard has run away from Messina.
That’s what we’re trying to say, sir.
And I saw her do it.
The sky frowns and scowls on our army.
We’ll figure out the best time and safest route to avoid being found out by my father’s guards, whom he’ll send out as soon as he discovers I’ve gone.
I hear him mock Caesar’s luck, which the gods give to men in order to balance out their subsequent wrath.
Do it well, and then leave us.
How do you know?
The noise they’re making will wake up Demetrius.
I won’t be taken for a fool who sighs and gives in to Christian meddlers.
Go tell your generals to hurry their preparations.
It’s a very pleasing night to honest men.
If your vengeful heart can’t forgive me, here—take my sword and bury it in my heart so that my soul, which adores you, can be free.
Meet me in a little while at the citadel.
She’s not even fourteen years old.
Yes, but swear by my sword this time.
And here comes the warden, just in time.
Worse and worse!
Otherwise, you’d see me blushing about the things you’ve heard me say tonight.
He never did harm that I heard of.
Doors, open up for whoever is knocking!
Hortensio 
Indeed, honor is what I want to talk to you about.
Please forgive me if I’m mistaken, my lord—but I can’t keep quiet when I think you’re being insulted.
I can stand well enough, and I can speak just fine.
I don’t know, madam.
I ask for him, and he comes.
Have you heard of me, most noble Empress?
Don’t you agree that we owe it to him to tell him about this, out of duty and love?
I used to love you.
Meanwhile, after you.
What right did he have to scold me like that?
Be merciful and say “death.” Exile is much worse than death.
The blows I gave you already will make up for your upsetting me.
I see you’ve met with the jeweler.
Yes, my lord.
If I were Brutus now and Brutus were me, I wouldn’t have let him influence me.
We might as well call him a man, since God created him.
Why are you still crying?
That’s why they say love is a child.
Well she was, good Curtis, before this frost.
Please, sir; crack jokes over lunch.
I wasn’t invited because they like me.
Be honest and helpful, and I’ll repay you for your efforts.
Read it, great Caesar.
I’ll poison you, or beat you with a club, or stab you with a sword.
Actually, their hearts are as sensitive and loyal as ours are.
Dear Macduff, I beg you, tell us you were lying and say it isn’t so.
Leave me alone, Desdemona, go away!
Age won’t wither her, and her charms are so varied that she never grows boring.
But, hang on!
you, as sure as your name’s Roderigo, if I were the Moor I wouldn’t want to be Iago.
lain.
Which two crowns would those be?
Let me go.
You speak so highly of fools!
How about it, Corporal Nym?
Call out my household servants.
To escape the decree condemning me
We did a lot of drinking in Egypt.
Give my compliments to your lady.
What a pain.
Oh Ratcliffe, I had a terrifying dream!
The human being unburdened by the trappings of civilization is no more than a poor, naked, two-legged animal like you.
All I wanted to tell you is that the lantern is the moon, I’m the man in the moon, this thornbush is my thornbush, and this dog is my dog.
Every month he has a new best friend.
What news do you bring?
Are you my son?
Sit down for a while, and we’ll tell you again the story you don’t want to believe, about what we’ve seen two nights now.
Oh, I wish I could know what will happen today before it happens!
Octavius, I’m older than you are.
No, please, save it for dinner conversation.
Cesario, come here.
Who is her mother?
You evil whore!
Hit them!
Sir, this is the truth
Yes, I remember.
No, I’ll help too.
Father, what’s the news?
It’s the truth.
Come on.
I’m a foolish, senile old man, eighty-something years old, not an hour more or less.
I’ll punish you so harshly that you’ll regret causing me this loss.
Brutus” and “Caesar.” What’s so special about “Caesar”?
The evil that men do is remembered after their deaths, but the good is often buried with them.
But if you steal my reputation, you’re robbing me of something that doesn’t make you richer, but makes me much poorer.
Go relax now.
Get yourself to a 
What do you think I should do?
Shame on you—get on board!
Go back with her?
At the bottom, any change is for the better.
Give me your hand.
When good orators finish talking, they spit; when lovers do (God help us if they ever do), they kiss.
Well, is it not news that Petruchio’s coming?
Someone deliver the order that Buckingham be brought to Salisbury.
Nothing, except your true love for my lord.
Love can make worthless things beautiful.
The violet smells to him the same as it does to me.
If she’s cheated on me, then heaven itself is a fake.
I have no doubt that you love me.
I wish that were true for both our sakes!
How can that be?
You told me to make it well and properly and in keeping with the current style.
Love is so vivid and fantastical that nothing compares to it.
The next man who swings his sword must not care about his life, because the instant he strikes, he dies.
You may think that I don’t love you.
Then one of you will warp and pull away—and there goes your marriage.
Ha?
No, my noble lord.
It’s true that your son Lucentio here loves my daughter, and she loves him—or else they’re putting on quite an act.
Go to the gate.
I don’t remember.
Then there must be no lovers in the forest, either, because they’re as good as a clock, marking the lazy foot of time with a sigh every minute and a groan every hour.
Why should he have followed you?
When are you getting married, madam?
Oh, oh!
How can they refuse to speak with me?
In our case, our bad neighbors over their make us early risers, a healthy and sensible thing to be.
Go get Aliena ready—because, look, here comes my Rosalind.
Is this the Prince’s brother?
You are very welcome here.
I’ll cry at nothing, and I’ll always do it when you’re in a good mood.
I’ve relinquished my authority, so please—I’ll see you all before long.
I could drink hot blood and do such terrible deeds that people would tremble even in the daylight.
Because their business lies outside the home.
Iago, give these letters to the ship’s captain who brought me here, and ask him to pay my respects to the Senate of Venice.
I’ve got something for you.
Certainly, I did.
Come in out of the storm.
The king is getting up.
What did you mean by not helping me?
I know because I dreamed of money bags last night.
Antony.
Oh, then you never loved as wholeheartedly as me.
Perhaps a woman’s voice may do some good when some small detail proves to be holding things up.
You were tricked into fighting, Gloucester.
But yet, madam— I don’t like the sound of “but yet.” It reverses all the good that came before it.
The food inside is warm, but you’re out here freezing.
You didn’t arrive like Caesar’s sister.
She was utterly true to you!
I can only say this about her
Be thrifty.
Maybe she’s just pretending.
It eases the spirit.
Let it stay in your inventory until it bankrupts you.
Her bridegroom is here.
Why do I have to do that?
Don’t worry about that.
I never saw such a shameful act.
I’ll get some cloth and egg whites to bandage his bleeding face.
I wish I had never seen it!
I don’t see any Thisbe.
Bad times?
Can’t you understand what I’m saying?
Who does time amble for?
But you’re too good a friend for me to wish her on you.
The ground is brown.
I’ll be nearby to help you, and between the two of us we can handle him.
Hey, Grumio!
I can’t watch any more.
Farewell.
Here comes the man himself.
The Duke of Cornwall, my master and patron, is arriving tonight.
You said those exact things to me back in the marketplace.
You can trust me.
Heaven help her!—Get him out of here for now.
Let quick sulfurous lightning, strong enough to split enormous trees, singe the white hair on my head.
Pay him six thousand and cancel the debt.
My good King, surprise the English and let them know what kind of kingdom you rule over.
Because it’s dark out, I’m afraid all this is just a dream, too sweet to be real.
I’ve set dangerous plans in motion, using lies, drunken prophecies, and stories about dreams to set my brother Clarence and the king against each other.
It took me two years before I had a single tooth.
It was a huge mistake to let old Gloucester live after we blinded him.
It’s dark, like my shoe.
Is the throne empty?
Hey!
But, tell me, is young George Stanley alive?
And he did.
Yes, and it seemed twice as long to me, having been kept from your bed that whole time.
This is just what the letter said.
For shame, bring Juliet out here.
Why so pale, my friend?
Please, leave me alone.
You’ll work for me.
You may change your mind later.
Let’s not stay here with them.
It’s getting late.
In a way, I mean.
I’d rather be a slave or a packhorse for this hateful stablehand here.
Brown, madam, and she wouldn’t want her forehead to be any lower.
Welcome to Cyprus.
How many infatuated people go mad with jealousy!
I will have to go on a journey to death soon, sir.
Come, let’s go to the dance.
Amen.
I certainly will, sir.
Even the fiercest wild animal has some touch of pity.
Do you remember the circumstances?
Go disguise yourself as a sea nymph.
Nell.
Maybe the king is sending you to the Tower to have you renamed.
Mercy, mercy!
Come, come, you’re making fun of me.
Then I’ll change it to this
Good-bye.
Should we sing a round to wake up the night owl?
What do you think you’re doing?
You, niece.
But he says he still loves and respects you, and based on his own feelings alone he’s looking for an opportunity to safely take you back.
Yes, but I didn’t see anything wrong, and I heard every syllable they said.
I don’t trust you.
Good night, good brother.
Good.
Michael Cassio, lieutenant of the Moor Othello, has arrived on shore.
What we do we have been commanded to do.
What’s going on these days?
Oh my!
Go hide, Adam, and you’ll hear how he abuses me.
Do you hear that, Charmian?
Catch me if you can!
This makes me feel so much better!
I’ll be nice to him.
I am not some fiend of hell
Get me out of here!
It’s mine, sir.
You are welcome for his sake.
A nice message.
My friends, listen.
But I swear I’m not the person I’m playing.
Ever since I arrived here, just now, I’ve been hearing strange rumors.
You don’t need eyes to see how the world works.
But I’m still fairly high-ranking.
Orlando, do you really believe that this boy can do everything he’s promised?
I’ve been looking all over for you.
So, take me, death!
I swear to God I won’t.
Do you know any, Hero?
For God’s sake, find a house to duck into.
What shall I do?
Oh, you lowlife!
Stay close by when we wake him up, ma'am.
Tell them this, Publius.
Contagious infection of humanity, give me a chance to condemn you for the evils I know you’ve committed.
Night is over, and day is coming.
Friar!
The princes are under some strange misunderstanding.
They were planning to pull a mischievous trick on Ferdinand and Miranda, who have sworn not to sleep together till their wedding day.
How can it be?
I’ll be able to see better from that pine tree over there.
Good evening to your Worship, good Captain James.
It’s not friendly, and it’s not ladylike.
May God’s blessing go with you and with all who turn bad into good, and enemies into friends!
Goodbye.
I was a reasonable man, then I became a fool, and finally a beast!
Thus far has our straining author pursued the story with his crude, inadequate writing, keeping important people penned up in this little room while he mangled history’s full glory with his uneven telling.
Made it for me?
Haven’t you totally dismissed my honor and integrity in your anger?
There’s no way to read a man’s mind by looking at his face.
Macbeth!
And I was right, because where’s your husband now?
Whom do you serve under?
Please, just walk with me a little ways, and tell me if I’ll see you later tonight.
Oh, then I guess she was old and gentle, and you rode barelegged, like an Irish yokel.
Clink your cups together in a toast!
I wouldn’t do that for the whole wide world.
I ask that none of you leave, except myself, until Antony has finished.
Why should men be more free than women?
Yes, sir.
Ah, there’s the problem.
Now, my companions and brothers in exile, hasn’t experience made this simple life sweeter than a life of glittery pomp and circumstance?
Have you seen my lord?
Did my father hit one of my attendants for scolding his fool?
He had one yesterday.
But let it go.—Now, Litio, it’s your turn.
Kent can speak rudely when Lear goes mad.
There I’ll see only myself.
But it has bay windows that are as transparent as stone walls, and the upper windows facing south-north are as clear as coal.
A good name.
What do you think, Bottom?
You can’t take anything from me that I care less about—except my life, except my life, except my life.
I would have been what I am even if the most virginal star in the heavens had twinkled at my conception.
Take your cues from my own despair.
It’ll be worth your while.
That’s it!
Certainly not!
Good morning, my friends.
Oh, he looks like a pathetic Sunday school teacher.
To repay her for her troubles, Death Gives her undying fame.
You and I, Kate, we are the makers of custom, and the freedom that goes with our position silences all who would criticize, as I will silence you for upholding the prudish custom of your country in refusing me a kiss.
It’s time to reassess the situation.
Can God be so jealous and hateful?
You take out your sword too.
Very sad.
But I didn’t want you to think that I’m hasty in my emotions.
Want?
I’ll fight brutally.
I loved Ophelia.
May the god of power make me, the weakest of the weak, your mediator.
But, Lepidus, go to Caesar’s house.
It’s nice to see children playing well together.
It’s proper that we speak first, which is why we sent our proposals ahead of us for your consideration.
And when you do— Cassius, calm down.
You’d better understand that I won’t wait till I’m chained up in your master’s court, and I won’t let myself be scolded even once by dull Octavia.
If I can cure him from his fever and tame him, and get him back to Naples, he’d make a great present for any emperor.
When we meet on Judgment Day, that look of yours will send me from heaven to hell, where devils will grab me.
I never talked with her in my life.
Keep a little bit of honesty, even if you’re afraid.
Be quiet.
I think one of them is nearby and can’t get away.
A beautiful target is the one that gets hit the fastest.
We’ll leave tonight and be home a day before our husbands get back.
As you please.
Good afternoon, fair lady.
Now, as you’re a Roman, tell me the truth.
This is his sword.
Has anyone ever courted a woman in this state of mind?
I’ll never speak to you again.
So, I won’t.
This is not a maiden, as you say, but an old man—wrinkled, faded, and withered.
Your scolding is somewhat overblown.
Do you hear what I’m saying, Iago?
Keep an eye on her, Moor.
When the time comes, tell the herald to blow the trumpet and I’ll return.
I will fight him there.
What’s the difference?
Promising favors?
There is much to be learned from these converts. 
I appreciate your frankness and your brevity.
Sure, I hate her, but I wouldn’t hurt her.
I can’t speak to her, even though she asked me to.
Reluctantly, I agreed–alas!
It’s no time for jokes
What, would you let a snake bite you twice?  
The alcohol that got the servants drunk has made me bold.
That useless old man still thinks he can wield all the powers he’s given away.
I wouldn’t change my mind even if she were 
You saw my master wink and laugh at you?
I wouldn’t marry her, even if she were as blessed as paradise.
Are you trying to start a fight?
When they feared death, they escaped with their lives; and now where they imagine they’re safe, they perish.
Yes, my lord.
She was a hellcat in school.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than you’ve even dreamed of.
Get up early tomorrow—at the sound of the lark—noble Norfolk.
Is Antonio here?
Give me your hand.
My lord, he will swear on his life that I haven’t kept a thing.—Tell the truth, Seleucus.
Oh, I wish I could sleep again, so I could have another dream like that!
Show me, show me.
Help!
Take out your sword and come on.
How are you, my golden girl?
Did you see Octavia?
And to hell with drowning yourself!
My lord, he wonders why you have assembled such troops of citizens to speak with him, since he had no idea they were coming.
Some villains in my court must have known about this and let it happen.
Petruchio?
Octavia has a pious, chaste, meek disposition.
Love cools off, friendships break up, and brothers become enemies.
I’ll meet you there in an hour.
Let’s go up to the castle.
I’d follow you to the gates of Hell, you sneaky little devil!
If you don’t want to, then good riddance.
More, more, please, more.
Then see the evidence of their evil with your own eyes.
The king loves you very much.
I’ll wait on them with all respect and duty.
Please, let me review the contract.
I’ll bet you a hundred marks, my Kate puts her flat on her back.
Do my simple features please you?
Yes, madam, twenty different messengers.
I am dying, Cleopatra, dying.
What did my man say?
Take good care of him.
So what?
Ah-ha!
Yes, my lord, but I can spoil it.
Oh Iago!
Either we go after Pompey or he’ll come after us. 
We shouldn’t make any judgments until we achieve our goal.
Whoever’s a real friend should strike me dead.
Alright, I will.
We have to get out of here, old man.
Well, that’s just greedy.
Just as the ox has his yoke, the horse its bridle, the falcon a tether, a man has his desires—to keep in check.
Give me your arm.
You know, uncle, A sparrow once raised a cuckoo in its nest Until the cuckoo grew up and bit the sparrow’s head off.
All right, have it your way.
Let’s have more sex in the world, since Gloucester’s bastard son was kinder to him than my daughters, conceived in lawful wedlock, have been to me.
Didn’t they ever whisper?
Good gentlemen, give me permission to speak.
So good night to everyone.
I’ll be damned if the duke wouldn’t have given him six pence a day for playing Pyramus. 
We don’t need to hear it.
As his body grows uglier with age, his mind rots away as well.
Listen to you!
My master’s calling me.
Oh, these men, these men!
Oh, good, a knife!
Just come again tomorrow.
How can you be out of breath when you have enough breath to tell me that you’re out of breath?
Well, sir, it’s better to say little than to be tedious.
The powerful dukes Gloucester and Buckingham.
It’s a pity that fools aren’t allowed to speak wisely about the foolish things that wise men do.
Are you insane, talking like this?
And I’ve built two chapels where solemn priests sing continually for Richard’s soul.
It isn’t proper for you to know how much Caesar loved you.
And the greatest sorrow is mine too.
You can stand in his place.
There’s no other shelter around here.
That man always looks so sour!
Are you ashamed of me?
Otherwise, I’ll die a virgin, devoted to you.
God bless you.
But this storm in my mind keeps me from feeling anything except what’s tormenting me—how ungrateful my children are!
Yes indeed.
Is Claudio your enemy?
Don’t give him time to catch his breath.
You may be exaggerating the risks.
Which one is it?
What, are you crazy?
You’re supposed to show that you understand that Pyramus just went to check on a noise he heard and is coming right back.  
No, just help me unpin this.
So farewell, all, for my tongue has almost finished with its life.
Go, girl, look for a man who’ll give you happy nights at the end of happy days.
I’ll moan very believably.—Name the other actors.—But I’m really in the mood to play a tyrant.
Or else love is blind, and its best time is the night.
Their messengers are ready, waiting to deliver our response in these matters.
Hush, Grumio.
Listen a minute.
Let go of me!
What’s this song?
Then the writer imitated the one I composed to my steed, for my horse is my mistress.
Kind gentlemen, I won’t forget the trouble you’ve taken for me whenever I think of this day.
Don’t worry, I couldn’t care less.
Come here, Sir Andrew.
The poor people died.
Halt!
Asses are made for bearing, and so are you.
Neighbors, hello.
Stillness and nighttime are perfect for beautiful music.
Oh, I’ve been murdered unfairly!
And I’ll use that piece of rope to welcome you with. 
Romeo is hateful, even though God isn’t.
How can we avoid what the gods want to happen?
Do you see?
I can’t believe my sister would neglect her obligations in any way.
After you harvest, you have to sheaf and bind So throw ripe Rosalind on the harvest cart.
We won’t take their garbage.
He did, my lord.
Oh, you should have done it without telling me!
I suspect that I have committed some offence to the city and you have come to reprimand me for not knowing better.
Don’t speak any further.
What are you going to do for a father?
Oh, well, stay till then!
How is my Juliet?
Indeed, before you arrived here, old Siward, with ten thousand soldiers already prepared for battle, was making his way here.
I’ve never heard such confused emotions as what that Jew dog was shouting in the streets.
What’s with you, my lord?
What’s there to say?
What’s that noise?
What is she saying, my lord?
But did you see them dead?
As a favor to  Nope.
Get out of here, my friend.
Is it true that good King Edward has died?
God bless your Worship!
I’ll steal away to England, and I’ll steal some more when I get there.
But since you come from him, you’re saturated with his healing spirit.
Just listen carefully while I tell you the amazing thing I saw, with these gentlemen as witnesses.
Yes, we get the idea.
I don’t have any news to report, my lord.
Go, hurry.
Well, no, not literally.
Yes, look, it’s true that children are punished for the sins of their fathers.
This is the time of night when witches come out, when graveyards yawn open and the stench of hell seeps out.
The news is true, my lord.
No, my lord, it’s been four months.
It’s almost ten o'clock.
There were twenty Montagues fighting in this awful riot, and together those twenty could only kill one man.
Are you making all this noise at this time of night because you have no manners, or because you’re just stupid?
If a Jew offends a Christian, what’s the Christian’s kind and gentle reaction?
In that case it’s good to be a post.
But you must learn to recognize such liars, or you will be greatly taken advantage of.
Don’t attack by land.
My beautiful queen, we’ll go up the mountain and listen to the hounds as their barking echoes in the cliffs and sounds like music.
Your grace, please forgive me.
The people are on my side, and I’m in charge of the sea.
Here, Peter Quince.
Here’s mine.
I’ll do it, if you help me out.
It’s almost four.
You mean “paragon.” A  The duke’s leaving the temple.
Harder, harder.
But if it is a sin to be selfish about honor, I am the most guilty soul alive.
So you finally find me worthy of your attentions.
But it is his handwriting?
What trade, boy?
He’ll come right away.
Come, trusty sword.
Since the wall is conscious, it should curse back at him.
You brazen whore!
Who’s talking to him now?
You’re both wrong.
I’ll write out a detailed inventory of my beauty and label every part.
Look with your ears.
Watch him closely.
Thirty ships.
Attack the breach in the city wall once more, dear friends, attack it once more—or else let’s close it up with English corpses.
God say, “Amen”!
So, to answer your question.
Donalbain.
If we lose this battle, this is the last time we’ll speak to each other.
Well, lead on.
Give me some light!
When has anyone ever put you down like that.
Let me finish my curse.
You must be mistaking me for someone else, sir.
I’ve lost so much weight worrying about my losses have that I’ll hardly have a pound of flesh to spare for my bloody creditor tomorrow.—Well, jailer, let’s go.—I hope to God that Bassanio comes to see me pay his debt.
No, he’s in Florence.
Sir, sir, calm down.
Good day, Catesby.
You think my uncle was lying, grandmother?
You disgust me, you little bug!
At least I’ve got some booze to comfort me.
This Iago is extremely honest and good, and he knows a lot about human behavior.
I’ll cross myself.
I think the marriage was made more for political reasons than for love.
Well that’s good.
Is he here?
Why are they running away?
And when a wise man gives you better advice than I just did, give me my advice back again.
But I don’t get it—what’s the joke?
Read it, Mark Antony.
Is the news good or bad?
Again, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.
Are they all ready?
I remember a fight, but not why we were fighting.
I don’t know you.
It doesn’t look that way to me.
We’ve been praying for our husbands' welfare.
Truthfully, my name is Cinna.
Where’s your master, Dromio?
Oh, come on.
A kind good night to all!
Come on, Casca, you and I will go see Brutus at his house before sunrise.
You should know I’ve earned a thousand gold pieces from Don John.
So how can anyone say I’m alone, when the whole world is here to look at me?
Yes, yes, this is the rope ladder.
Then isn’t it just the right dish for a sweet goose?
He is my dear friend, your Majesty.
Which of you has been complaining to the king that I don’t like them?
My name is Decretus.
Tell me, Captain Macmorris, have you left the tunnels?
Sweet Moon, I thank you for your sunny beams.
What should I pay you?
Will you marry her?
And yet you say that exile is not death?
I’ll look at him and try to like him, at least if what I see is likable.
Well then, your uncle and the Prince and Claudio have been deceived.
God bless you, Bottom, God bless you.
You’re too forgiving.
To prison, until you’re called into court.
He leaps from the ground as if his insides were light as hairs.
Thursday is coming.
I want you to see the difference between us, so I pardon you even before you ask for a pardon.
For now, don’t try to persuade me anymore—I ask you as a friend.
You could only imitate his imperfections so well if you were the man himself.
I think so too.
If wolves had been howling outside your gate at the heart of that storm, you would’ve told your doorman to let them in, despite all the cruelties you inflict on the world.
Casca will tell us what’s the matter.
Yes, fashion is fashion.
Gentlemen, calm down.
to wage war.
It’s already almost night.
I sent for Cassio to come talk with you.
You make me want to agree with the philosopher Pythagoras that animal souls are reincarnated in human bodies.
Why don’t you answer me, man?
Alexas!
Then no man has ever been honest.
I don’t know who had him arrested, but the man that arrested him was in a suit of leather.
I’ve heard all about you women and your cosmetics too.
Maybe I’ll never go home again, Iago!
On top of this, they’ve either burned or carried away everything that was in the king’s tent.
You’re not responsible for my death and my father’s, and I’m not responsible for yours.
Don’t be sad that this happened because of you, because Lady Luck’s been nicer to me than usual.
He’s gone?
You’re not asleep yet, sir?
Oh, what an excellent young man!
The prince has far outgrown me.
How will I recognize you in the future?
This week he was sad, moody, and depressed and very different from his usual self.
No, she’s worse
Thus, I’ll leave without being kissed.
I, who have survived storms at sea where the winds raged like wild animals?
I’ll ask them.
Mine too, to join hers.
How is that possible?  
Look, here’s where Cassius’s dagger pierced it.
I’m ordering you, go home.
So what if I killed her husband and her father?
I’ll be getting my own figures together in the meantime.
Goodbye.
Ah, my good old friends!
Watch me
Good night.
Your answer?
Tell me, are you and Ensign Pistol friends again yet?
That’s very true, mangy rascal, when it pleases God.
If she were so moral, she would never have fallen in love with the Moor in the first place.
Here, madam.
I’m telling you, this house is dark.
I gave him the material.
I’m wounded.
Good night, good night.
My darling Othello!
A friend.
Caesar, I have news about Menecrates and Menas, notorious pirates who prowl the sea in a variety of ships.
But I think—I want to tell you the truth, and now that I think about it, I think this is true—I came here with Hermia.
I came to Venice with a number of Antonio’s creditors who say he won’t be able to avoid going bankrupt.
Until now, no one could say that only one man mattered in all of vast Rome.
Be convincing.
Set it down awhile.
I’m game.
What do you want?
We’re off to eat and whoop it up at your father’s house.
The gods can hear you lying!
But I paid attention to where Cupid’s arrow fell.
So you got what you deserved, and were locked up in this cave, which is more fitting for the likes of you than a prison would be.
By his side lies the noble earl of Suffolk, York’s comrade and equal in brave wounds.
Oh, except for the widow Dido?
Think of your sins.
Crazy” I’m calling it, since how can you say what craziness is except to say that it’s craziness?
Good afternoon, good gentleman.
I really think it was him.
Bolstered by righteousness, I prepared to fight, and when he saw my excitement—or perhaps because my shouting scared him—he ran away suddenly.
This last course here is for closing up the stomach after great feasting.
Is your name Shylock?
Oh, noble weakness!
If the witches tell the truth—which they did about you—maybe what they said about me will come true too.
From this, I conclude that many different elements can work toward one common end—just as many arrows, shot from different points, converge on a single target; just as many roads meet in a single town; just as many fresh streams empty into only one salt sea; just as the many radiuses of a 
Naked,” he says.
I can’t go any further, sir.
Then Caesar and he will always be united.
She hangs around me all the time.
Yes, my lord.
Don’t you think so?
Got it?
I do dare, and I say that you are the villain.
I’m not sleepy at all.
I just want everything to be all right between you.
What an irreplaceable and grievous loss!
The queen drinks to your good luck and happiness, Hamlet. 
Oh, you’re a naughty one, encouraging double-dealing.
Hail, king!
I don’t understand why she’s not locked up.
Just think, I could be Count Malvolio!      
But brother, I have some strange news for you.
Help, my lord of Norfolk, help, help!
Hurry, hurry!
This is an asp’s trail, and these fig leaves have slime on them, just like the kind that asps deposit on the caves by the Nile.
They eat too much and get indigestion and nausea.
It’s meant in good will.
But Benedick was once an enemy of love as well, and now he’s become a real man.
There’s a nicer piece of work right here.
There were enough Christians before—as many of them as could stand to live near each other.
It’s only for your willing and receptive ear.
I want my bond.
Well, that’s what he’s doing—making you free to enjoy heaven.
Brutus, do not provoke me.
Isn’t that your habit?
I only wish I could load him up with all the praise he deserves!
It’s the death of half the world. 
Send a message to his brother.
Who doesn’t know that the good duke is dead?
He’s not getting anything except the penalty.
Soundly, my lord.
Good madam, be patient.
I’ve been tricked.
But like a misbehaved, sullen girl, you’re whining about your bad luck and your love.
When we’re born, we cry because we’ve arrived on the stage of life, like all the other fools.
In his heart?
She provoked me with her lying mouth, accusing me of crimes I didn’t commit.
Ah, my poor princes!
So calm down.
A god of a god?
Thinking, my lord?” My God, you keep repeating everything I say as if you were thinking something too horrible to say out loud.
Okay, but please not before me.
What miracle will he work next?
I don’t know, sir.
Squabbling?
Well, thank God I’m cured!
Put him within the reach of my sword, and if he escapes, may heaven forgive him as well!
So go.
If our father continues to use his authority as usual, then his recent abdication of the kingdom will just hurt us.
I’m glad to see you.
That these crimes are punished so quickly is proof.
You’re smiling?
Come, let’s join our hands until the overpowering wine makes us soft and forgetful.
Thank you for that joke.
That tree could be called God’s tree, since it drops such wonderful fruit.
Hello, spirit!
I’ll fight you.
Music, listen!
No, Lysander.
Goodbye.
I wish I was your bird.
Where is his body, Messala?
Come on, put it away.
We’ll have a couch made up that’s softer and more fragrant even than the bed of lustful 
These are tricks of the imagination, and this place is filled with magicians.
If knives, poison, or snakes have edge, effect, or venom, I am safe from that fate.
If you can leave your body so easily, then the touch of death is like a lover’s pinch, which hurts but is desired.
What?
Very well taken, I believe, very wise.
And that Mr. Shore’s wife has nice feet, cherry lips, pretty eyes, and a very pleasant way of expressing herself.
You think about him too much.
I’m really a pitiful singer.
Our knocking woke him up.
Are you joking?
If what you feel is really love, tell me how much.
Who can blame him for acting crazy, when inside he condemns himself for everything he’s done?
Give me your hand.
Yes, he does.
Monster sweetie, be a good monster and just speak once.
Therefore, willingly and yielding.
Now start the music, and sing the solemn hymn.
He’s definitely drunk now.
And I was just going to yours.
Goodbye.
Actually, it’s not so unusual when you think about it.
the way trainers do with young hawks that flutter and flap and will not obey.
God knows I have done my best to argue for you, and made him angry at me for being so aggressive.
That he was never trained as a soldier.
I chose her for my wife when I thought I had no father to ask advice of.
And so farewell.
Well then, good bye, my lord.
They’re certainly a peaceful couple!
And  Madam, with all my heart.
Be calm!
I wish this trick would be over.
In a way” is the right way to go.
Just as bad, my lord.
The count is neither sad nor sick nor cheerful nor well—he’s just civil, as Seville as an orange, with the same jealous-yellow complexion.
You know where she is.
Carry him away.
You’re appealing to a son who hates you.
Prepare yourself, please, for this trip.
Also, you’re supposed to visit all the bars and tell anyone who’s drunk to go home and go to bed.
Was it a man?
The door is open, sir.
Our shipwreck has made more women widows in Milan and Naples than there are survivors to comfort them.
What color, madam?
Kent’s been banished just like that?
Yes, but the clerk will never do it, unless he grows up to be a man.
I don’t feel like going.
Alas, why would you heap all these responsibilities on me?
When he wakes up!
It’s too late to go to bed now.
I’d like to introduce you to my friend.
Then he’ll be as calm and quiet as a dove waiting for her eggs to hatch.
Oh, spite of spites!
She will not come.
And wouldn’t I be damned if I let this monster live to do more harm?
A greater gift?
Something’s wrong.
No stony tower, no brass walls, no airless dungeon, no iron chains can contain a strong mind.
I don’t think he’d have any choice, my lord.
Well, sir, my mistress is the sweetest lady.
Let fortune and victory be yours!
I had only one child, one poor child, one poor and loving child, the one thing I had to rejoice and comfort myself, and cruel Death has stolen it from me!
It’s very hot.
Let’s not argue here in front of both our armies, which ought to see nothing but love between us.
What do you want to say, sir?
It may be that his antagonist is a gentleman of very high degree, quite outside of his own sphere.
But here she comes.
Blab my nonsense!
No one’s heard from him.
I don’t know what I’m doing.
How does he love me?
He’s at home, my lord.
The mercy that was alive in me a moment ago was smothered and killed by your own advice.
He’s his homeland’s jewel.
I swear I never hated you or your father!
Your master and his servant are here.
The men there won’t give a penny to a lame beggar, but they’ll pay ten cents to look at a freak show exhibit.
Please, tell my father, madam, I won’t marry yet.
He who chooses me will get what he deserves.” I’ll assume I deserve the very best.—Give me a key for this one.
Pay for something I never got?
Honestly, sir, I’d need to use words to explain why, and since words are so unreliable and false, I’d rather avoid using them in a serious discussion.
I’ll have to ask you some questions, madam.
What does he say about our marriage?
Oh God, did Romeo’s hand shed Tybalt’s blood?
What?
The second I saw you, my heart rushed to serve you and be your slave, so here I am now, a patient log-man.
Then I’ll pay you for doing what you like.
Hey, if I’d remembered something about him, I could have had a good comeback for my uncle, touching on his growth worse than he touched on mine.
Admit you were wrong.
Imagine the French ambassador returning to inform Harry that the king offers him
I, fight against you, Antony?
How can you blame her, a tender young maiden still given to virgin blushes, for objecting to having a blind, naked boy appear before her?
Good morning to you.
In my bedroom window there is a book.
You go down toward the Capitol, and I’ll go this way.
Please, marry us.
Lord,” he calls you?
What has the governor of the town decided?
I didn’t do anything.
I promise I’ll carry the wood faster.
You had this child with the help of heaven.
All this”?
Charles, I thank you for your loyalty to me, and you’ll see that I’ll reward you.
But please tell me, is my boy—God rest his soul—alive or dead?
First, Peter Quince, tell us what the play is about, then read the names of the actors, and then shut up.
The marshal of France, Monsieur la Far.
Well then.
How old are you, friend?
Caius Ligarius doesn’t like Caesar, who berated him for speaking well of Pompey.
Oh God!
No, sit down.
By God!
Sir Toby needs help right away.
Follow your spirit, and as you charge cry, “God for Harry, England, and Saint George!”
What, is trusting a friend such a crime?
Oh, good judge!
You wanted to be king of the island, sir?
But I’ll linger.
I will, sir.
Trinculo, if you interrupt him any more, I swear I’ll knock some teeth out of your head.
But you’re a famous pirate!
I’m sure he’s been kidnapped.
Good idea.
The king sent us to give you his thanks and to bring you to him.
A nice, soft pillow would be a more suitable place to lay that good white head than France’s hard, cold ground.
This guy here has banished two of his daughters and blessed the third one without intending to.
Very clever!
Oh, please do.
That’s a step in the direction of love.
Oh, my heart!
But wait a minute, please.
Well, good luck!
You must know that the snake will act according to his nature.
It fell on a little western flower, which used to be white as milk but now has turned purple from being wounded by the arrow of love.
From now on, take care of your messages yourself.
Bless you, master.
The only glory princes have are their titles.
If each grain of sand had a tongue to eulogize, my horse would be a topic for them all.
It must be a spirit.
If you close the doors on a woman’s wit, it’ll fly out the window.
What if your husband strays elsewhere?
The king has just honored me, and I have earned the good opinion of all sorts of people.
Well, we can put away our pipes and go home.
And just try to remember a few rules of life.
The Moor is being tricked by some crook, some terrible villain, some rotten bastard.
Call the priest.
Whoo-hoo!
He’s walking over there, sir.
The clock says it’s daytime, but dark night is strangling the sun.
Here comes Lorenzo.
Oh God!
I’ll take responsibility for it.
You know that we parted only seven years ago, in Syracuse.
And if you rattle on about mountains, then let them throw millions of acres over us.
Was my father a traitor, Mother?
He is indeed worthy of the name “horse,” and you can call all the rest beasts.
Please come with me.
What does the golden box say?
Hurry up, I say.
Get into your cold beds and warm yourselves up.
Come, Katherine Queen of All, reveal your heart to me in broken English.
What you just said may perhaps be true.
Was a man ever beaten as much as me?
When you avoid one trap, you fall into another.
My Lord Constable, are those stars or suns I saw on the armor in your tent tonight?
That woman who claims I am her husband—I loathe her in my soul.
Your husband.
Oh, please, I’m begging you, don’t mention him again.
To save her life, I’ll say she doesn’t.
It’s often the case that having something makes us spoiled, while not having it turns out to be advantageous.
I think you’re my mirror, not my brother.
Isn’t it strange, Canidius, that he could cross the Ionian Sea so quickly from Tarentum and Brundusium and take Toryne?—Have you heard about this, sweet?
Oh, make them joyful!
Here’s the head of that notorious traitor, the dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.
You’re less happy, being feared, than they are in fearing you.
Now I go, a jolly, thriving wooer, to marry my brother Edward’s young daughter, Elizabeth, because I know Richmond has his eye on her.
Why, what’s the matter?
Well, I’ll get my revenge.
But as for this ring, please excuse me.
Let’s give a fair verdict.
While we were here guarding you as you slept, we heard a loud roar that sounded like bulls, or lions.
Is that true?
We’ll never see each other again.
Pay you?
You have some plea for Caesar, don’t you?
I  Isn’t this good?
Come at me in the form of a rugged Russian bear, an armor-plated rhinoceros, or a tiger from Iran.
It sets you up for a fall.
If he hadn’t, we’d all be embarrassed to look at him.
His beard was gray, right?
It’s possible, ma'am.
He called me Sebastian.
Please hear what Goneril is saying.
Go to your tomb!
My mind is too great for that.
Tell me, is your tardy master close at hand?
Gentle gods in heaven, please let me die.
Do you know whom you’re talking to?
But, really, what’s going on, Clarence?
What if a fellow were bringing him a couple of hundred pounds to toss around?          
If there are any, speak, for it is he whom I’ve offended.
When an evil thing has been lost, no one cries.
Do you know anyone who would kill someone for money?
Well, do your best.
Who is so low that he wouldn’t?
When they choose, they only know how to lose.
Come on, relax, dear.
Besides, they act as outward consciences and preachers to us all, a visible reminder that we should prepare ourselves for death.
My wife’s coming.
I’m an ass, I’m a woman’s servant, and I’m beside myself.
Didn’t you know?
I believe I have some choice in the matter, sir.
I know you’re my oldest brother, and deserve more respect.
Just say “Yes” and I will turn more poisonous than the snake with the evil eye.
If you were ever yourself, and this sadness was yours, you and your sadness were all for Rosaline.
Will you be having dinner with her tonight?
Antony will go where his passion is.
Shame on you!
On this hill and in despair, with his slave Pindarus.
What’s she doing now?
I don’t know, except they are busy with some phony guarantee.
Why have you collapsed?
Why would you celebrate it?
I’ve already sent the proof in my letters.
I hope so.
Do it, and shout like the city’s on fire.
I hope she keeps it short.
Good morning to my sovereign king and queen.
See you soon.
It’s absurd.
Now, fellow, what have you got there?
Can you remember the time before you came to live in this shack?
Yes, I’m sure he’s dead.
Yes, my lord.
No, boy.
Will you meet me right away at Ninny’s grave?
Someone adored me once, too.
Right in the middle of the fight, just when the battle could have gone either way—actually we had a slight advantage—that immoral Egyptian nag—May she die of leprosy!—suddenly became frightened, and turned her ships around and fled.
Bloodshed will force you to.
But all of you, remember what you’ve said and prove yourselves true Romans.
He has captured Toryne.
And when I get my reward, I’ll get out of here.
This is how they do it, sir
Your mother’s been poisoned.
Yes, I want it, and I’ll get it.
I saw him holding the handkerchief!
We have slashed the snake but not killed it.
Well go on home.
Why are you doing this?
Wake up when something nasty is nearby.
Tell the Duke of Albany to prepare for war immediately.
Absolutely, you idiot.
It’s so simple!
My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
No one, Brutus, no one.
These revelations have overwhelmed her.
With this in mind, speak, my lord.
No, I haven’t had lunch.
For that kind of relief, the patient must heal herself.
Thank you for all your efforts.
Is the king leaving here today?
Get out of my face.
I’d hate to see you drowned in honey, sir.
I want very much to find out.
Be violent, bold, and firm.
What traitor hears me and doesn’t say amen?
I’ve destroyed my reputation, a most shameful error.
If he shows up tomorrow, I’ll give him what’s coming to him.
We want answers.
There’s a man haunting this forest who abuses the trees by carving “Rosalind” on their barks.
Where’s that dog?
How?
Some of this liquor’s still left in the goblet. 
My wife was killed too?
You’re talking about killing?
Knock at the gate?
And she’s fierce, even though she’s little.
I hear their drums.
After all, who would put up with all life’s humiliations—the abuse from superiors, the insults of arrogant men, the pangs of unrequited love, the inefficiency of the legal system, the rudeness of people in office, and the mistreatment good people have to take from bad—when you could simply take out your knife and call it quits?
I ask that again because nothing can be wrong if she is well.
You’re lying, you shaggy-haired villain!
Listen to my little story, and when it’s done, oh, my heart will break!
That’s right, or drinking, swearing, fist-fighting, visiting prostitutes—that kind of thing.
His breath stinks.
If you don’t repay me on the day we agree on, in the place we name, for the sum of money fixed in our contract, your penalty will be a pound of your pretty flesh, to be cut off and taken out of whatever part of your body I like.
And, moreover, God saw Benedick when he was hid in the garden.
If my eyes don’t deceive me, you are my daughter.
Now I’ll go see my priest, to ask for his help and tell him about my good luck.
What do you think, will my friends prove loyal?
Oh, please be quiet.
Don’t you know that I’m a woman?
Great happiness!
There, my lord.
Is it out of lust?
No problem, madam.
Lysander and I are running away from here.
No, please don’t hate him—for my sake.
I hear a voice more piercing than the music of these trumpets calling “Caesar!” Speak.
No, he hasn’t.
And you called the fairy creature harmless, monster.
Our fate depends on this chance.
Now, Signior Petruchio, how are you getting on with my daughter?
I don’t know what “poetical” means.
Doesn’t the sun shine palely down on them, as though in contempt, killing their fruit with frowns?
We’re glad to see you.
Listen!
I’ll vouch for Grumio.
Cicero, I’ve seen storms in which the angry winds split old oak trees, and I’ve seen the ocean swell, rage, and foam, as if it wanted to reach the storm clouds, but never before tonight, never until now, have I experienced a storm that drops fire.
That’s authority!
You worthless girl!
Hello.
Referee!
I don’t trust you.
Welcome, my lord.
You’re a traitor.—Off with his head.
I won’t move to please anybody.
But I guess it doesn’t matter.
Cheers, boys.
Moors are moody people.—So sell your lands and raise a lot of cash.
Let it be a quarrel between us, if you live.
And I get sick when I can’t look at you.
The larger part, the main body of cavalry, are coming with Cassius.
Hello, sir.
I’ve spent most of my money, and tonight I got beaten up.
Or you can pretend to settle your differences until this matter with Pompey is finished.
Yes, if your memories do you no good.
Oh, how fortunate that horse is to have Antony on him.
The people have heard it already, and they’ve been told of his accusations.
I’m going to tell Desdemona my feelings.
We’ll do it.
Madam, I’m a bit like you in that I can’t tolerate a tone of disapproval.
I love him dearly, and I shall continue to favor him.
You’re perfect, without a rival in the world, made up of the best qualities of every creature.
I think Belman is just as good, my lord.
It’s time that we brought our armies into the field.
It may be so.
When all these extraordinary things happen at once, we shouldn’t say, “These happenings can be explained rationally.
I’ll change that name for you.
Yes, we talked for a couple of hours.
Offer yourself more respect, or—not to beat this word to death—you’ll offer me the chance to be a laughing-stock.
Yes, my lord.
He’s my prisoner and you can’t have him.
You slander her, you devil.
Everything you told me I already knew.
which any peace-lover can do.
But don’t take all that pain on yourself.
Yes, you’re absolutely right.
His absence means he’s broken his promise, sir.
One creditor showed me a ring he got from your daughter in exchange for a monkey.
I’m glad you’ve come, father.
But maybe by some fluke he was saved too.
I order you to come with me.
You fell from the terrifying top of this chalk cliff.
Well, you’re not on target there.
Oh, sir— Don’t think I’m flattering you.
I’ll be with you right away.
Nobody will hurt us.
It’s easy to get Desdemona on your side.
Thanks for your company but, really, I would have preferred being alone.
Where is he?
Tomorrow, sir, I’m fighting for my reputation, and any man who gets away without a broken bone or two is an exceptional wrestler indeed.
For God’s sake, Sir Toby, you’ve got to come home earlier at night.
Has any man seen him at the barber’s?
I swear, I’m telling you what I honestly think.
I’ve seen you fight and envied your skill.
She gave up her life with your name still within her.
I have to stay with the servants, who are with our camp’s luggage.
You’ll wear a mask, and you can make your voice as high as you want to.
Your peace of mind depends on him.
The day will come when you’ll wish I could help you cast spells against this poisonous, hunchbacked toad.
They’ve made many raids upon Italy—and the naval patrols go pale at even the thought of resisting them.
Free from the bondage you are in, Messala.
Signior Baptista, I’m glad to see you.—Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of.
Can you tell me if a man named Launcelot, who lives with him, is still there?
But let her live.
Richard, the duke of Gloucester, hates you.
Listen to my excuse.
We’ve got to give them and take them, my lord.
Look, it’s the Prince and Mr. Love.
I don’t have it with me.
Hurry up.
Hang on a minute, here’s some money for you.
Watch me like a hawk.
As for Michael Cassio, I think it would be safe for me to swear that he’s honest.
I hope to God it’s something political, like you think, and not jealousy involving you.
You speak well.
How are you, Lorenzo?
Heaven wanted Rosalind to have these gifts And me to live and die as her slave.
That’s true, my lord.
Now, I swear, I’m so angry that I’m shaking all over.
It means being full of sighs and tears, like I am for Phoebe.
Yes, my lord.
No, you’re just reminding me of something I’ve also noticed.
I like to pretend you are, because then it’s almost like actually talking to her.
Catesby.
When it comes to defense, it’s best to assume that the enemy is more powerful than he seems.
What man is that?
Well, then, you don’t have the affection that would teach you that you and I are one.
What a lying, drunken monster.
That’s what I hear.
Poison never came from such a sweet place.
You lowlife son-of-a-bitch!
Yes, madam, but he’ll be back tonight.
I don’t know how.
Your physical health matters more than your reputation.
In cash.
Let me see.
But I’ll see you soon.
Farewell, hostess.
No, I am a Welshman.
Sit down, worthy friends.
No, come to my cabin.
Should we just get down to it?
I’ll do anything you ask.
How tragic!
God bless your Grace!
Oh Lord, they’re fighting!
The  It’s too bad there’s more of the Moor than there ought to be.
Angry enough to run away.
He’s been captured or killed.
Why, mistress, my master is as angry as a bull with horns.
I tell you, I feel very jolly remembering such a beautiful dream.
Hello there, sir!
Follow me if you’re brave enough, and we’ll fight over Helena.
Many times, madam.
Go play with yourself.
So be careful.
Okay.
I’ll return the favor.
The nobles of Cyprus whom you invited to dinner are waiting for you.
As good a wife as she is, that’s how good a husband I am to you.
She’s dead, she’s dead, she’s dead!
But how can you say that, when the king himself says you’re the heir to the Danish throne?
If you take more or less than exactly a pound, even if it’s just the tiniest fraction of an ounce—if the scale changes by even so much as a hair, you die, and all your property will be confiscated.
Our celebratory hymns will change to sad funeral marches.
If I cut my finger, I’ll use you as a bandage to stop the bleeding.—And your name, sir?
It really is good to see you.
That makes Lady Courtesy a traitor.
What time is it?
Please allow her to do this.
He speaks bluntly, madam.
Please, don’t be sad, and don’t tell me how reluctant you are.
A virtuous woman won’t give her husband horns, and my Rosalind is definitely virtuous.
It makes me mad.
I put those wedding sheets on your bed, as you asked.
Don’t you trust my sword and these wounds?
Damn it!
Their story is bizarre and astounding, but it’s solid and consistent.
People who are either too serious or too silly are awful.
That’s what you get for marrying Christian husbands.
But let him come.
I don’t believe it.
I’m not one of his punk friends who carries a knife.
Here comes Ensign Pistol and his wife.
There’s no power in Venice that can change an established decree.
Oh, who did this thing?
We don’t have any music that can’t be heard.
He was so sharp when he was in school.
I’d give half my dowry to keep anything bad from happening to him.
I cannot live without her.
I’ve been up all night.
Now he’s telling the story.
I’ve heard her say that.
And look how he’s repaid poor Clarence for his loyalty—penned him up like a pig being fattened for slaughter.
I’m not sure I can wait that long.
Why are you talking about robbery?
Some kinds of lowly activities are done for noble reasons.
I’m all right.
Though I said my name was Benedick, I heard this news with Claudio’s ears.
They’ll consider you and Jessica masters of this house in place of Lord Bassanio and myself.
Kill me tomorrow—but let me live tonight.
I’ll think it over.
Wait, madam.
Big, round tears ran piteously down the animal’s innocent nose.
We achieve things with our intelligence, not by magic, and intelligent planning takes time.
You think he’s special, since you’ve only ever seen him and Caliban.
If you have a voice or can make sounds, speak to me.
I hope to make the sender blush for it.
Before I saw Lysander, Athens seemed like paradise to me.
I am the youngest man by that name, because there is no one younger, or worse.
No, please, speak seriously.
This is rebellion.
What’s your name?
Master, I’m all tied up for you.
Take a few steps—I want to see you walk.
What would you like?
Yes, you already hurt me in the church, in the town, and in the fields.
You’re absolutely right.
How can this be?
Tell me.
For various reasons that must remain secret, please do this for me.
I’ll bandage up these wounds and swear I got them in the French wars.
What brings him here?
Have you mangled my tongue so badly in these seven short years that my only son can no longer recognize my weak, sorrow-ravaged voice?
Yes, Caesar, but it’s not gone yet.
Hardly, Kate.
I won’t listen to you.
Then you’re a better man than the king.
That dirty rat!
Claim fair England’s peace depends on this alliance.
Indeed, his mocking spirit has now crawled into a  Truly, it all adds up to a serious story for Benedick.
All three of us will marry now in death.
I’ll hide and listen in.
Don’t come in here, uncle!
He was perfect in everything.
I’ll help you.
Isn’t my fortune just a little better than hers?
Yes, right now.
Yes, we’re the privates in her army.
On a night like this, young Lorenzo swore he loved her very much, stealing her heart with vows of love, but not one vow was true.
Sir, here’s the Queen.
Hurry.—Oh, love, if you could only watch the battle today and see how expert I am at my craft.
You shall advise me in everything having to do with Cleopatra.
Why not?
You can’t go any further with us, sir.
I need people as trustworthy as you.
Is your little pearl in there?
I’d do it myself, but I can’t leave my post.
Though I expect she’ll wear me out more quickly than I’ll wear out what I’m wearing—which will be good for her and even better for me!
This feather moved because of her breath.
My lord, we were sent for.
Pull them apart.
Have you ever cured anyone this way before?
Damn it, you’re not listening to me!
This damned witch Sycorax was kicked out of Algiers for various witching crimes too terrible for humans to hear about.
Absolutely.
And I’ve never met any men besides you and my father.
I don’t like his face.
Has it come to this?
You’re a lying, cowardly wretch.
You mock an ancient tradition, born of reverence and worn in honor of brave men who have died, and then have the gall not to stand by your words.
The Moor says the man you hurt is very important in Cyprus, and that under the circumstances he has no choice but to refuse to reinstate you.
Think about our situation, then die.
Good night, brother.
Go and put on your own armor.
Don’t worry, man, I won’t try to escape.
You drunken slave, I sent you for a rope, and I told you what to do with it.
My wife and I ordered him to hang Cordelia in prison and then to make it look as if she committed suicide in despair.
They’ve recorded my crimes, and I would rather die than have to retell this shameful story.
I know who you are.
Ha, ha, ha!
My mistress showed me you in the moon and your dog and your bush.
Over there, where Titinius mourns it.
He can’t bear his grief and so he’s losing his mind.
What heir of the York family is there alive other than myself?
A wise man and a fool.
My sword will talk for me.
I dreamt about this.
But you’re not down and out, either, are you?
Your other daughter Regan will treat you kindly, you’ll see.
Yes, I’ll go.
If everyone looked so lovely in their sorrow, then sorrow would be highly prized.
It was some devil.
Oh, that arrow was well shot.
Can’t Lord Stanley sleep?
Me too, but still, for the sake of good manners, I’ll say thanks for your company.
Onward, lover boys!
Here’s another jacket to say thanks.
Here comes my man, the man I’m looking for.
Very well, thank you.
Stanley dreamed the boar beheaded him, and I laughed and refused to flee with him.
Now let Richmond and Elizabeth, the true heirs of each royal house, be joined together!
They’re very anxious for you to get there.
But please, tell him how well I faked a faint.
I am ashamed that women are so foolish as to declare war when they should plead on their knees for peace, that they seek authority, supremacy, and power when they are under an obligation to serve, love, and obey.
If I can’t have an estate by birthright, then I’ll get it by being clever.
Come with me and I’ll get it for you.
No, indeed, my lord.
The senate has decided to give mighty Caesar a crown today.
Do you think fiery fever can be put out by the windy puff of titles?
Hearts cannot think it, tongues cannot speak it, meas-urements cannot calculate it, scribes cannot write it, bards cannot sing it, and poets cannot make verses about it.
What a long night this is!
I leave him to you.
And what will happen if I don’t?
I see you’re all eaten up with emotion.
Feed him apricots and blackberries, with purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries.
Yes, my good lord.
Then repeat this after me
I’ll speak as sharp as a dagger to her, but I won’t use one on her.
Here in the tent.
It’s our destiny, like death.
Give me your love instead, as I give you mine.
He speaks well.
In the meantime I’ll tell you all, as honestly as I confess my sins to God, how I wooed this beautiful lady, and how she came to love me.
That’s good, my boy.
Speak, I command you.
Many former friends of ours have gathered to meet the fleet and aren’t willing to beat it back.
Many people, men and women alike.
Please go, sir.
Still, did you notice how ready he was to hire good tutors for her?
He was crazy to run away.
Romeo, come out.
Come on, tie them up.
So you’re saying you’re not a whore?
Dighton and Forrest, whom I hired to perform the butchery, are used to killing people, the bloody dogs.
Farewell.
The king, his brother, and your brother are all waiting there in a crazed state of mind, and the rest are grieving over them, sad and astonished.
But what am I afraid of?
Let me hear what Agrippa has to say.
It doesn’t matter that I hit him first.
He’s welcome here.
Yet not one among them, if all three were to wait on me, could be my “man,” because three such fakes don’t amount to a man.
But I haven’t eaten anything yet.
Goodbye.
What woman wouldn’t be distressed, being lorded over by a handful of dust?
Oh, yes, Benedick has returned and is as cheerful as ever.  
Mistress!
To Baptista Minola’s house.
Did this happen before the King of France returned home?
My evidence that you have wronged me is that you condemned and disgraced Lucius Pella for taking bribes here from the Sardinians, and you ignored my letters, where I argued that he was innocent; I know the man.
No.
What mistress do you have?
I’ll drink it if I like.
If even then they don’t answer to your satisfaction, you can say that they’re not the men you thought they were.
If we meet him at Philippi, these people will be at our backs.
But if you would be willing to accept circumstantial evidence as proof, we can get that.
Tell me.
Have courage, man.
No I don’t, believe me.
The captain who brought me to shore has my women’s clothes.
Oh sir, I accept.
He has an uncle here in Messina who will be glad to hear this news.
She’s a fine woman, all right.
I say a devil.
Tell us, Othello.
Oh, your report is too poetic, but it sounds so true!
Don’t keep anything back, I insist.
Oh, my poor brother!
I hope this play is well cast now.
Let those who would mar this fair land’s peace with treason die before they can enjoy its wealth.
It’s about who I am, and how, why, and where this handkerchief was stained.
Don’t be silly!
No, let’s not swear an oath.
I can see in your eyes there’s been some good news.
That’s why your daughter and son-in-law are punishing me shamefully.
I’m glad to see you go.
Young Fortinbras, returning in triumph from Poland, is firing his guns to greet the English ambassadors.
I think you came to see my mother’s wedding instead.
Wait, good Beatrice.
I’ll take you to where he sleeps, and you can pound a nail into his head.
Don’t go,” says my conscience.
Help!
If you have poison for me, I’ll drink it.
Go.
Yes—as you and the rest will find out as soon as he’s home.
Death is my heir.
I have nothing to do with what you’re talking about, my lord.
My forces are growing, and everything I know tells me it’s all coming together.
She’s cold.
Look at them.
I will not be faced or bested.
There’s more to this ring than its cash value.
I don’t know what you’ve done to upset him, but someone has challenged you to a duel.
Look out, here she comes.
Arrest me if you dare.
It’s the former Hero!
Come here, Leonato.
Oh Cassius, I’m tired out by many sorrows.
Let’s send this news to Rome.
I suspect his friends will join us.
Don’t go near Casca.
You see me standing here, Lord Bassanio.
Well then, the beef without the mustard.
Oh, Brutus!
He is what he is.
You insolent rascal, what trade?
What’s this part for?
There’s money in it for you.
Though I wouldn’t wish to be better for my own sake, for your sake I wish I were twenty times more than myself—a thousand times more beautiful and ten thousand times richer—just so you might value me more, so my good qualities, beauty, possessions, and friends would be more than you could calculate.
Out here everybody can see us.
Not true.
Isn’t that what he said?
Sweet Sir Andrew!
I’ll go back to the duke of Gloucester and tell him so.
Leave him alone.
My cousin Westmoreland?
Mighty duke, look here and see a man who’s been treated most terribly!
How sweet it would be to actually have the woman I love, when merely thinking about love makes me so happy.
I wear it with pride, for I am Welsh you know, good countryman.
I’m not who I appear to be.
Ha, ha, ha!
So all the work that oxen and farmers have done in plowing the fields has been for nothing, because the unripe grain has rotted before it was ripe.
What did Northumberland say about Richmond?
Those are the things we pine for now.
What kind of life do you lead that your poor friends must beg for your company?
No, it’s a story.
No, I’m telling you, put on this robe and beard.
The poor souls—how strangely they talk!
Good Prince, say something!
Then have your servants bring him out.
And why do you blame me for loving you?
The king rode out alone to view their troops.
I could not forget you, since I never saw you before in my life.
Up here you can’t even hear the waves crashing against the rocks.
What an annoying man, this guy is!
I’m not.
If not, I’ll leave you alone and that’ll be the end of my business.
You have absolutely abused our sex in this love talk of yours.
When a woman is virtuous, talents like these just make her better.
To work for you, sir.
I hope those lions stay far away from him.
How are you?
What kind of scheme do you have going together?
Yes, sir, we’re part of her entourage.
It is.
That’s me you’re talking about, the playful wanderer of the night.
So be it.
His nurse?
You have guessed exactly what I feared.
I wish to God that the golden crown that I’ll have to wear were red-hot steel and burned me straight through to the brain!
Conquer, crush, conclude, and kill!
I wouldn’t allow any commerce.
That’s how you’ll talk about me when you’re in this mood.
Listen!
You’ll get a blow from me for that, I think.
Here, you goddamn incest-breeding Danish murderer, drink this.
In the time since he left Egypt, he could have traveled an even longer distance.
You scolded him in private?
Even someone with a good and virtuous nature might give way to a royal command.
You’d be a pitiful bird.
If you struggle to bring down a tyrant, you will sleep peacefully when the tyrant is killed.
Age is the thing that nourishes.
I’ll go alone.
Our tattered navy has reassembled and set sail, as formidable as the sea itself.
Look at me now!
Ha, ha!
I’d rather bear with you than  Well, this is the Forest of Arden.
Don’t get up yet.
If he’s as good as a saint but is black like a devil, I’d rather he hear my confession than marry me.
Tell me, spirit, how’s the king and his entourage?
Never.
Has he, sirs?
Get them in here.  
Someone whose mood is as foul as the weather, very troubled.
A jealous woman’s poisonous ranting is worse than the bite of a rabid dog.
I repeat, he’s in love.
That’s impossible.
But Miranda is so much more beautiful, you can’t even compare the two.
She shall not.
Don’t be late.
Here comes the noble Antony.
I know exactly how to proceed.
And you will be, or some people here will suffer for it.
Oh I hope that’s not true!
I don’t know why I should be afraid, since I haven’t done anything wrong.
Show it!
Amen to that, from the bottom of my heart.
I hope for my brother’s sake that he just wrote it to test my honor.
I’ll be a harsh master to them.
Virtue turns to vice if it’s misused.
Good-bye, my lord.
She says that you should come to her.
If your Majesty would like, I’ll muster up my friends and meet you wherever and whenever you like.
That’s one of them.  
No, not at all.
Bring your master home.
A man, like you.
I spoke angry, foul words to him, and with that I will kiss you.
Yes, I am the one.
Now I’m starting to pity Titania for being so infatuated.
To whom?
Shame on you, you slanderer!
His love is blind, so it belongs in the dark.
Let the blood rushing to my cheeks be calmed.
Is it on record that he built it, or is it just word of mouth?
Go back again, slave, and bring him home.
I’ll tell you
What kind of work is this, Charmian?
Just to the Tower—I’m guessing, for the same reason you are
Those men you just mentioned will be beheaded today.
I saved his life and gave him my love, without reservation.
She’s weak and will die unless you comfort her.
Didn’t I meet up with your allies?
Buckingham himself has wandered away alone to who knows where.
His majesty is so concerned about my personal safety that he has ordered them to conduct me to the  You’re being arrested?
Fool!
Here’s the hut, my lord.
With the help of the grim  The first to greet me there was my great 
Good God, I was about to say something.
Some kind of fountain?
Bandage my wounds!
There is no better one on earth.
Hey, what’s this, Adam?
And yet I still regret the anger that drove me to kill them.
He was an admirable king.
To tell you the truth, I was just going to your house.
I’m going to find some shade and sigh until he returns.
Hello, sir.
Oh ho!
But how?
He’s bound to Octavia.
When she cries, all the little flowers cry too.
I’m not as happy as I seem.
You should know that when I came here I was prepared to accept your offer.
Can’t you see that?
Order them to move back.
Enough of your magic spells, you hateful, withered hag.
If you stop up the keyhole, it will escape from the chimney along with the smoke.
Just a man, like any other.
By this leek, I swear I’ll make you pay for this.
Every one of us is a criminal.
Ha, ha, ha!
Isn’t that enough?
Here, Fluellen, stick this in your cap.
And they’ve got their swords unsheathed!
And I’ll go to bed at noon.
I make her angry sometimes by saying that Paris is more handsome than you are.
I’m sure you know him.
You shouldn’t have to see the punishment we inflict on your father.
I wouldn’t insult him in my own house for all the wealth in this town.
One thing is certain
Oh, go away!
Of course, sir.
If you like, you can rest a while in my room.
Take a good look, and you’ll see that one of the three men who rule the world has turned into a whore’s jester.
Damn you!
Oh, say it, and mean it!
You don’t have to tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
You’re still here?
The wind you’re talking about is blowing us off our course.
Can we do that?
So stop hoping and wondering what I mean. 
Alas, my lord, your confidence is getting the better of your wisdom.
It’s locked away in my memory, and you’ve got the key.
Indeed, sir, it is.
Fast asleep?
To hell with your sword.
Don’t follow me.
Uncle!
Her father loves you, Demetrius.
Your Majesty shall mock at me.
The treacherous weapon is right in your hand, sharp and dipped in poison.
Does that necessarily mean you should love his son?
Can’t a plain man live and do no harm to anyone without being taken advantage of by a bunch of slick, sneaky lowlifes?
No, afterward.
Now, Iras, what do you think?
Oh, did he?
She’s too beautiful and too wise to deserve heaven’s blessing by making me despair.
If I know nothing about pity, that must mean I’m not an animal.
No, advancement to the dignity and height of honor, to a high, imperial kind of glory.
Here’s why
Pick me up.
Give me too much of it, so I’ll get sick of it and stop loving.
Please be quiet.
Please!
What about Falconbridge, that young English baron?
Don’t you 
You want me to copy the embroidery pattern?
Hurry up, Audrey, hurry.—I’m coming, I’m coming.
I hear his trumpet.
It would have been better if, after she said, “Tybalt’s dead,” she told me my mother or my father, or both, were gone.
Prince Dauphin, you’ll stay with me in Rouen.
God protect you from tornadoes, evil stars, and diseases!
If you act like my daughter, I’ll marry you to my friend.
We’ll burn his body in the holy place and use the brands to set the traitors' houses on fire.
Was that my father who left here in such a hurry?
Say goodbye to me.
Victory is with us.
Then you would have to go beyond heaven, beyond earth.
May God’s arm strike on our side!
Lend me your cloak, Sir Thomas.
For when you cut your shin.
Ha!
She’s the daughter of this famous Duke of Milan I heard so much about but never saw before.
No, by no means.
What, he never made you laugh?
He’s a raven with the feathers of the dove.
Talkers aren’t good doers.
The table’s full.
It wants you to go off with it, as if it wants to tell you something alone.
Here’s the east.
I do hate 
Who are you talking about?
Go to him, madam, speak to him.
He was on his way here with your wife.
Yes, it’s me.
That’s right, you stupid thing.
If only you were, sir.
What color is her hair?
I swear, I love you.
There’s a spirit in here!
Thank you.
The wooing is like a Scottish jig
Bassanio told him he’d try to hurry back.
With all my heart.
I’ll follow the priest and go with you; and after I’ve sworn to be faithful, I’ll be faithful forever.
Oh, sir, you are too good at predicting the future.
Affection!” That’s nothing!
And all because I use my own money to make a profit.
Where’s Romeo?
Tell me truthfully, do you love my sister?
Oh, here she comes.
Oh, forgive all my sins!
Follow it, follow it!
It’s a good thing he’s here to recommend himself.
Though the truth of your treachery is as plain as black on white, I can scarcely believe it, it’s so past understanding.
What do you think of his belief?
I wish your Highness knew my true feelings in this matter
Don’t delay, Caesar.
Or are you just pretending?
Let’s do that.
Watch out, boy—remember I can whip you.
We spend more time seeking out the fleeting glories of this temporary world than looking to the permanent grace of God!
And how, out of your great heap of knowledge, will you manage to prove that?
He got what he deserved.
Well, should we head to the Tower?
You will be an accessory to both crimes.
What I’m saying is, your jealousy has pushed your husband away from his sanity.
Pray God does some surgery on you
The problem is in what the letter says, as far as I can tell.
Shall we get to work?
Go as fast as you can.
Oh, what a world this is, when even what is beautiful in a man poisons him!
Damn you all!
But there’s more work to be done.
You’re alive.
You don’t know me, but I know you’re an important person.
We’re on a tight schedule.
A nice coincidence, my lord.
It’s born of my  A witty mother!
It’s so scary to look down!
If you pursue it, this strict court of Venice will need to carry out the sentence against the merchant there.
You are all    Lord of lords!
To have seen much but own nothing is to have rich eyes and poor hands.
You are my guests.
So good-bye for now.
Everyone except the sailors dove into the sea, leaving behind the ship that I had set on fire.
As my child, I order you to do so.
Mark Antony, should we give the signal to attack?
I know that he’ll be on our side.
I’ll look over the inscriptions again.
Is he there in person?
She has disarmed me.
And I have much less to comfort me than you do, since I’ve lost my daughter.
Iago, who started it?
What’s wrong with you?
That rotten scoundrel! 
That too.
It is, my lord.
No, don’t.
Whenever you want, since you’re the one who wants it.
But when you are with him, your angel is weakened and easily frightened.
Now I feel my soul leaving.
It’s obvious to everyone that you’ve tricked her, drugged her, or kidnapped her.
What do you mean by that?
Let’s go to bed, knight.
A drum!
That’s not good.
Otherwise—forgive me, but if you should die before him, what becomes of her dowry?
These men all have one intention, and it’s directed against Caesar.
We answered them, blow for blow.
A beautiful voice, I swear.
Hang on a second.
I’ll give you the title to that ship and its treasure.
Where are these murderers?
Ran off with a Christian!
Jailer, keep an eye on him.
Then there’s the Count Palatine.
Some other time.
What do you think, madam?
That Lodovico is a good-looking man.
We’re bound to each other in every possible way, except we need you to marry us.
It’s the smartest partition I’ve ever heard speak, my lord.
What is the name of the castle that stands over there?
Sister, be happy in my unhappiness.—Sir, I will humbly obey you.
What is the matter here?
It’s after six o'clock, my lord, when you said our work would be finished.
But if the cause is not just, the king himself will have a lot to answer for, when all those legs and arms and heads chopped off in battle shall join together on Judgment Day crying, “We died at such and such a place.” Some will be swearing, some crying for a surgeon, some for the wives that are destitute without them, some about the debts they owed, some for their children left unprovided for.
Time has come round, and I’ll end where I began.
Thank you, doctor.
Now come along.
All of you who are looking at her, wouldn’t you swear that she’s a virgin, judging by these outward shows?
No other grave on earth shall hold a pair this famous.
Hero is his only child, and his only heir.
To see an elderly, unlucky merchant from Syracuse publicly beheaded for breaking the law and coming here to Ephesus.
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
We are your servants, your highness, and as always our house and everything in it is at your disposal, for after all, we keep it in your trust and we’re glad to give you back what’s yours.
I think they want him to go home and appoint Cassio governor in his place.
Why would anyone flatter a poor person?
What’s the message from the English king?
She confessed.
Do you believe his “offers,” as you call them?
I tell you, Captain, if you look at a map of the world, I’ll bet you will find, comparing Macedon and Monmouth, that the situations, see, are very similar.
Oh, I’m dead!
What could I say, my dear?
What we have to worry about is a full-scale invasion from Scotland—always an unreliable neighbor.
Yes, my lord.
But Roderigo, if you’re as courageous and determined as I think you are, then wait just a bit longer.
Now go, and hurry back.
Take me to Antony.
What are you thinking?
Kneel down to the duke before he passes by the abbey.
He said “Goodbye, madam,” and nothing else.
Hide yourself, good Romeo.
Now, let it work.
Me neither.
Can you imagine being hitched to a lump of clay?
I won’t have one any bigger.
Tell me once more what you say.
Oh, sad day!
So you don’t love me?
I would’ve been happy if the whole army had had sex with her, the lowest-ranking grunts and all, as long as I didn’t know anything about it.
Oh you damned villain!
He’s late.
Oh, my lord, when wisdom and passion are in one body, it’s ten to one that the passion will win.
Go.
In that case, if I can wear a mask, let me play Thisbe too!
But I thank God that I failed in my scheme, and I rejoice in paying the penalty, as I beg God and you to pardon me.
Are you mad?
I don’t expect him to answer for me, and yet I’m determined to fight vigorously for him.
The king—whom I hope God will protect better than you would like—can’t get a minute’s rest without you bothering him with your outrageous complaints.
Are you dreaming or awake?
No, let them go.
Please, will you take his arm?
If you regard it as shameful, put the shame on me.
Didn’t he say my brother has run away?
Is the army without a leader?
What do you want?
John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers, Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
Show me, or at least prove it beyond the shadow of a doubt.
My lord, he refuses to come.
And leave us, Publius, in case the people storming us should harm you.
I never knew a woman who loved a man so much.
So that’s what I’ll do, not because I love her but because I’ll get something out of it.
Oh, Antony!
If you’d known how much that ring meant, how much the woman who gave it to you is worth, or how much your honor depended on your keeping the ring, you wouldn’t have let it go.
They all fell asleep together, as if they’d planned it.
He really was tricked horribly.
Go on, wear your boots out!
You should know this
Macduff is missing, and so is your noble son.
I’ll pretend to be the housewife for once.
I’ve found it out.
I don’t like her name.
Shut up, you troublemaker, no more of that.
I think it is, sir.
Try to get him to do that.
My father’s ghost—armed!
Hmmph!
But why should my reputation for honor last longer than my honor did?
The devil himself couldn’t say a name I hate more.
Leah gave it to me before we were married.
They really wish they were somewhere else, but they want to descend on us, looking fierce so we’ll think they’re brave.
My library was a large enough dukedom for me.
It’s time for me to go.
I definitely will.
Here I lie and will never get up again.
No one’s listening to you.
Where’s the king?
Right now, my pressing business calls me away.
We have no friends but determination and the quickest death.
Is that how it is, really?
Call my guard, please.
I’m amazed you got here before me.
She shall be buried next to her Antony.
Wait a minute, gentlemen.
Sir, I must get that diamond ring back from you.
And will you have me?
What’s that good for?
Open your gates.
We’ll see them immediately.
What’s going on, Borachio?
You can do whatever you want as long as it’s socially appropriate.
Try again.
Shouldn’t I say, “Does a dog have money?
There was even more foolishness, if I could only remember it.
I doubt it’s anything but the obvious reason
Noble Antony, even illness couldn’t keep me away.
My friends told me as much, and I knew it, too.
Don’t you have one word of joy?
Listen, Clitus.
They’ll be married tomorrow, and I’ll invite the duke to the ceremony.
There’d be no kingship— He wants to be king in a place with no kingship.
Does anyone here know who I am?
But my hair looks good anyway, doesn’t it?
Or if you haven’t sat as I do now, boring your listener with all your lover’s virtues, then you haven’t loved.
They’re natural enough.” I think these things are omens of things to come in our country.
Put out your torches.
When only one or two men have all the good manners, and even they are dirty, things are bad.
I met him in the street—he was there with that man.
Listen, Fairy King.
If you wish to speak of love, speak more softly.
This is amazing.
That’s a sin young men often commit because they allow their eyes to wander.
Where is my lord, the duke of Gloucester?
Sex and marriage are honorable things—even for a beggar, right?
I was told that you were violent, proud, and sullen.
Once again you bring good news.
This is his second fit like this.
Ariel, you’ve done your work exactly as I ordered.
Please, let me go.
I remember when I was in love, I broke my sword on a stone, and told him to take that for coming at night to see Jane Smile.
It’s my exercise time.
Let’s follow the old earl, and get that crazy Tom to take him wherever he wants to go.
Please go inside.
Then leave her, sir.
The only kind of tears you should shed in this case are the kind you might get from holding an onion to your nose.
It’s good we had this meeting.
You know what I intend.
Then I’d be punished for the sins of my mother.
I can’t sleep quietly in the Tower.
Have my brother-in-law’s troops been mobilized?
I think she’s the most wonderful woman I’ve ever laid eyes on.
You would fight with a man if he had one more whisker or one less whisker in his beard than you have in your beard.
What does this mean?
There are enough of us still alive in the field to overcome the English with our numbers if we could just restore some kind of order.
He’s a good-looking young man, and there are a lot of people with him.
Not a chance!
My new master is expecting your approach.
But not the woman who scolds, anyway, I hope.
Be brave and do well!
Three thousand ducats.
That’s another bad deal I’ve made!—a bankrupt, a spendthrift, who now has to hide his head on the Rialto, a beggar who used to look so smug in front of the other merchants.
Are my master and his wife coming, Grumio?
But you won’t take his flesh if he can’t pay.
Are you drunk?
But where will I lie tomorrow?
Didn’t you call him a liar?
Good night.
Good luck, sir.
I thank you all.
I’ve been invited to supper, Jessica.
I’ll warm myself by blowing on the fire.
Good sir, this ring was given to me by my wife.
This lantern represents the moon.
Well, I think it’s good to be serious and keep quiet.
For Juliet’s sake, for her sake, rise and stand up.
Yes, as much as you look like yourself.
Shut the doors after you.
This isn’t a monster, it’s a devil.
You just said they had to face her.
My lord, I’d want to have the gift you promised me on your honor
Malvolio’s coming down the path.
So to be banished from Verona is like being banished from the world, and being banished from the world is death.
Some of them give me money, some invite me places, some thank me for the kind things I’ve done for them, some try to sell me things.
I’m afraid that may be the case, madam.
Do you have any doubts, Antonio?
Thanks, my dear lord.
Shall Kate be my wife?
Tell me, my good friend, what is that light over there?
But since your father doesn’t want him to marry you, you have to consider Demetrius to be the better man.
Damn you for mocking me.
Look, here comes our honored hostess!
Tell them you know that Hero loves me.
What prisoners of rank have been taken, uncle?
But Caesar ignores offers that don’t give him an advantage, and so should you.
I have no idea how.
I must go and continue the business Fulvia started.
Yes, even power gets in its own way.
Find out what this villainous Edgar is thinking, Edmund.
Our poor father, Clarence!
Gentleman, I am not the same man I was before.
This is the place.
Look, sir—here it comes!
First, I ask you what they’ve done; thirdly, I ask you what offense they’re charged with; sixth and lastly, I ask you why they’ve been committed here; and, in conclusion, I ask what they’re accused of.
The gods do this to test my bravery.
Oh, horror, horror, horror!
Oh no, my reasons are deep and as permanent as death.
Where’s your servant 
I don’t have to give you answers that you like.
But I beg you, don’t interpret my suspicions as slander against you.
And you have to cut this flesh from his chest.
What do you want from me?
I’m afraid it will make you too hot, too.
Yes, like your horse, who, staggering under your boasts, would trot more easily if some of them dismounted.
The best thing to do is crawl under his cloak.
Yes, well, things could get better.
Where have you been hiding?
Cassio’s not dead?
Friends, go your separate ways.
Let’s start.
It’s a big prize for such a small sin.
I thought I had escaped from the Tower and was on a ship to France with my brother Richard, who persuaded me to leave my cabin and walk on deck with him.
That’s the truth.
I saw it with my own eyes.
Oh, dear God, please help him!
Here, I give you my blessing again.
But as for now—before two weeks have gone by, I’m going to send some people packing.
Could you have found two Romans as good as these two?
Delay this marriage for a month, or a week.
The whole quarrel might have been resolved since then when we repaid what we stole from them—which most of our city did, for the sake of friendly trade relations.
Please give in, sweet Hermia.—And Lysander, stop acting like she’s yours.
I’m not sure, but I don’t think so.
What further pain must I endure in my old age?
You can judge for yourself what I mean.
Tomorrow, while it’s still early, I will go see the witches.
Now, I’ll swear to the opposite—that the pancakes were rotten, and the mustard was fine—but even so, the knight wasn’t lying.
I’m dying an innocent woman.
Oh, Cassius, if you could only convince Brutus to join us— Don’t worry.
There is laughter in heaven When earthly affairs are put right And people unite.
Lord, may I never see a day of trouble until the day I let someone treat me like that.
I ask too much of you, but you’re always willing.
He carries a third of the world.
Help, help, help!
He insists he’ll speak with you whether you want him to or not.
Do you think so, spirit?
This is what it’s all about— Please, I beg you— No, my lord, I’m comfortable like this, thank you.
Well, let’s get out of here and tell Macbeth what we did accomplish.
I wish you could face your bad news like a man!
Who said that I was disdainful, and that I got all my best lines out of a bad joke book?!
Madam, an eagle does not have eyes as green, as quick, and as fair as the eyes of Paris.
My brother’s love, the devil, and my own anger made me do it.
I will die and leave Death everything.
We all expect a nice answer from you, Jew.
I would have made it short.
Goodbye to the horses and the trumpets and the drums, the flute and the splendid banners, and all those proud displays and pageantry of war!
The clock’s just striking twelve.
What’s more, people at the 
You started a fight with a man who coughed in the street because he woke up a dog that was sleeping in the sun.
Leave me alone now, Iago.
I’ll teach you a lesson.
Oh, madam, madam, madam!
Of course, they won’t believe you without proof.
For I’m sure that although you may know what temperance is, you’ve never experienced it firsthand.
I’m not dead?
Why did you leave the dining room?
You didn’t give me any gold.
I know a terrific wench.
Who is leading his men?
I’ll do my best, madam.
They’re like stomachs and we’re just the food.
My eyes were liars, then, because I never saw true beauty before tonight.
Either let heaven send lightning to strike the murderer dead or let the earth open wide and devour him, as it does this good king’s blood.
Let us in so we can tie him up tight and bring him home to recover.
Oh, noble sir!
These chatty fellows who can rhyme their way into a lady’s good graces always reason themselves out again.
I say you’re not.
Well then, don’t bother.
Yes, he will, and the queen as well.
But since,  To get back to the matter at hand, what do you think of our proposal?
Or did the letter make him emotional somehow, and this is the first time he’s done it?
I don’t deny it.
I’m sure you do.
What can I say to him, lady?
Come with me, boy.
All right, go ahead, keep up your little game, pretend to be sympathetic, but then nudge each other and wink and make faces at me when I turn my back.
Look at you, standing there in a stupor!
You’ll never find her without an answer unless you find her without a tongue.
Let’s follow them.
I don’t dare, sir.
You seem all right now.
It’s a trick to confuse us.
Me, “greedy”!
It’ll go away.
Yes, what about it?
Come on, my lord.
I am.
You’ll know about that later.
I don’t know what to say.
The East is very seductive.
I know how they think, and I understand why they’re doing this.
An excellent motion.
Go!
Sadness and despair!
Who did this, Sir Andrew?
When I tell him he hates flatterers, he agrees, just at the moment when I’m flattering him the most.
Let’s call for help and get them tied up again!
Oh, well.
Thanks for letting me go.
What?
My lord, I have news for you.
You can’t trust them.
Honestly, no.
I like singing.
Corporal Nym, be a man and put away your sword.
Did old Bellario send you here?
Give me your arm.
Where should we meet?
There’s a ransom.
She’s too much for me to handle.
They want to whip me for telling the truth, you want to whip me for lying, and sometimes I’m even whipped for keeping quiet.
This may end without anyone getting killed. 
There’s something else to be done.
As for your husband, he is noble, wise, and judicious, and he understands what the times require.
Where’s your conscience now?
A messenger from Lord Stanley.
This isn’t the death of one man.
She’s dead to me.
Here it is.
I know him well.
I know he wouldn’t be a wolf if the Romans didn’t act like sheep.
I’ll see you on the guards' platform between eleven and twelve tonight.
He’s very bright.
As for me, I’ll leave when I like.
I have no doubt about that, since I know there isn’t a man among us who isn’t with me wholeheartedly, or a soul left behind who doesn’t wish us success and conquest.
You will listen to me.
So then the Poles won’t be willing to defend it.
Please come in.
Miserable England, I foresee for you the most frightening time you have ever experienced.—Come, lead me to the block.
But you’re wrong.
No.
No, not at all.
I sent you a letter while you were carousing in Alexandria.
I’m telling you, I hardly know myself.
Do you really mean that?
You think I care what I’m called?
Indeed I did, my lord.
Tell the constable that.
And don’t be proud.
I don’t want to kill you before you’ve readied your soul.
The only thing you can sense are punches—just like an ass.
It’s terrifying.
Yes, indeed, and all the King’s men, the Duke of Milan and his fine son too.
Demetrius is an admirable man.
Silence!
If you’re my friend, tell me what you’re thinking.
You’re a pustule, a sore, a tumor digesting my bloodline.
Yes, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
I can’t stand her.
Your grandsons will neigh to you like horses.
Divine, perfect woman, give me a chance to prove in detail that I’m innocent of the evils you accuse me of.
If they do fight, I hope Lysander is safe!
My happiness and yours lie in her.
My liege, this man is a villain and a traitor, who—see, your Grace—has struck the glove which your Majesty took from Alençon’s helmet.
Were you mad when you spoke to me so madly?
The wisdom of your loyalty, fair Bianca, has cost me a hundred crowns since dinner.
She did compliment me on my yellow stockings recently, and she said she liked how the crisscross laces looked on my legs.
Oh!
If you forgive my mistake, I swear I’ll never break an oath with you again.
Well, I hope you stay in that frame of mind or some poor man will end up with his face all scratched up.
He’s fine and healthy, madam.
Now I have to go find some dewdrops and hang a pearl earring on every cowslip flower.
Therefore, when he has reason to fear, as we do, his fears are without question of the same order.
I’m going back into battle.
But let it rain; I’ll survive.
Read your history!
I was his daughter when you banished him.
Goodbye.
Tell him I’ll take the leek out of his hat on Saint Davy’s Day and slap his head with it.
A king, perhaps— My lord— How is it that the prophet didn’t tell me at the time that I would kill him?
Tell us what you know about this affair.
Madam, tell me quickly, what day is that?
But let me hear the letter from your friend.
Where is he?
You’re right.
In that case it’s your imagination that’s interesting, not the play.
My servants might overhear, and old Gremio is still hanging around, so we might be interrupted.
You have forgotten, and you think it’s a burden when I ask you to walk through the ocean, or run on the north wind, or do business for me underground when the earth’s frozen solid.
Never mind.
Well, this is what happens when men let themselves be ruled by women.
For God’s sake, shut up!
I’m growing a beard.
Why shouldn’t I be there in person?
As surely as I am the queen of Egypt, Antony, you’re blushing, which means you’re Caesar’s servant.
If you want to go to hell, there are better ways to do it than killing yourself.
Oh painful, painful, painful day!
A little bit.
See, now I have you.
Coward!
Where’s the Master, Boatswain?
I’m not feeling well—that’s all.
Poor man!
Quiet!
So now turn and draw your sword.
Well, good-bye, Portia.
Heaven knows what secrets she’s keeping.
Are you really alive, Stephano?
Then that’s the way it’ll be.
I’ll give you frets!” With that, she clobbers me with the lute so that my head goes right through,
And I’ll neigh like a horse and bark like a hound and grunt like a pig and roar like a bear and burn like a fire at every turn.
Since the light of my life has gone out, I’ll stop here.
I’ve never been your enemy.
If you continue treating Hermia so badly, you’ll pay for it.
It was a total fluke that you yourself were saved.
Sir, your age and status inspire more respect than your weapons do.
It blesses the one who gives it and the one who receives it.
That’s what she was expecting, and you let her down.
What then?
These are the messengers from my sister and the king.
Oh, yes, we could, sir.
I’ll leave you now to chatter and gossip like an old woman.
Well, well, well.
Was a man ever so tired?
I’m not possessed!
You’ll be ashamed of this forever!
With a doctor’s help he might recover and become an ass again.
Oh, I’ll rest here forever.
Thieves!
When I was putting on the Ceres show, I thought of reminding you about Caliban, but I was afraid of upsetting you.
He certainly flattered them both with extravagant compliments.
Come on.
My lord!
Well, should we hear some music?
My love, my life, my soul, beautiful Helena!
I feel sicker and sicker.
He has called for his horse, but I don’t know where he’s headed.
He’s just as terrified of Sir Andrew.
I saw it in the orchard.
Pompey is making the most of our absence. 
Oh, a plague has been prevented, thank God!
Then let Octavia dig up your face with her nails.
Let’s get out of here.
That’s why I’ve begged him to come on our shift tonight, so that if the ghost appears he can see what we see and speak to it.
What do you think about him, Cassio?
If it takes all the wine in my bottle, I’ll cure him.
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
He won’t get the better of me.
It’s strange that you haven’t heard.
And you can do poor things that lead to rich results.
I spoke with some of the sailors who survived the wreck.
Stay, then.
Stand away from the body.
Give me some wine and let me say a few words.
Oh ho, is that what you’re getting at?
I’d give forty pounds to be safe at home right now.
You’re wrong about that, I assure you.
You’re the beautiful one as far as Demetrius is concerned.
We’re not getting any younger.
When this wood burns, it’ll weep for making you tired.
They swore that you were sick with love for me.
The nasty devil’s biting my butt.
I’m going to forget my duties to you a little bit and complain about the injuries you’ve caused me.
May God give their souls rest.
Have you told him all her faults, Hortensio?
Yes, you’re right, her name is Margery.
You must go to Parthia.
Me neither.
Please calm down, uncle.
Why, what have you done, sweet Beatrice?
You, fellow, step out of the crowd.
Don’t do it with poison.
Then I’ll tell you.
If it’s me, there’s no time as good as this hour of Caesar’s death, and no weapon better than your swords, covered with the noblest blood in the world.
Please sir, if love or money can buy anything in this empty place, tell us where we can rest and feed ourselves.
Give me your hand, Roderigo.
No, he didn’t get any by me.
My sweet Cassio!
Has he come home yet?
He will be given safe conduct and money for his passage home.
Take whatever wife you want to bed with you, You’ll have a fool’s head forever.
If the Jew cuts deep enough, I’ll pay it instantly with all my heart.
Guard them carefully until we decide how to punish them.
I’d rather be a weed in a hedge than a rose in my brother’s garden.
I think it’s better to call it off.
Oh Margaret, Margaret, your heavy curse has now landed on poor Hastings’s miserable head!
But whenever you feel a larger pain, the smaller one disappears.
If you’ve got any music that can’t be heard, then play that.
Fight it like a man.
You have a beautiful half-sister, Octavia.
I don’t think any woman like that exists.
Didn’t this frighten our captains, Macbeth and Banquo?
We’ll listen to him.
Mankind’s role is to fear and tremble when the almighty gods send warning signals.
I’ve said too much in telling you of it.
Well, I’ll turn pimp and do some occasional pickpocketing.
Let’s go.
I came here crying.
Where is my husband?
We will, my lord.
And my sweet master, I received no gold.
Why are you looking for me?
Look, here comes Cassio and my husband.
The pig or the mighty or the huge or the magnanimous—they all mean the same thing, with some variation.
I have to obey. 
Every second you delay is as long and dull as a journey to South Seas.
Oh no!
Can you buy them with money?
Besides, you’ve gotten unreliable.
So everyone goes off into the world except me, who stays in because I’m sunburned.
I have the motivation, the willpower, the ability, and the means to do it.
Didn’t you talk to it?
Then she ran away to grieve alone.
But ships are just fragile boards, and sailors are just men.
Carry me, good friends, to where Cleopatra is.
Treason!
I wander everywhere faster than the moon revolves around the Earth.
Be pointed and brief.
What do you think that means?
There is nothing in the world that I love as much as you.
Oh, if it turns out to be true that he survived, then that storm was kind, and the ocean was full of love!
Wait, Tybalt, wait!
Today’s a holiday, so the beggar’s shop is shut.
Sure, and twenty others just like you.
No, you must see them as your father sees them.
What is it?
And Trinculo’s drunk.
We can’t wait here.
My lord, he just left here.
Well, I disagree.
At his best he’s a little less than a man, and at his worst he’s little more than an animal.
Quiet, children, quiet.
I’d rather overload my liver with wine than starve my heart by denying myself fun.
Can’t I say something?
Did Cicero say anything?
Well, that’s what you get to do.
I believe your Honor is thinking of a character called Soto.
Give me my armor.
Oh, look, sir, look, sir!
Why are you so rude to someone who loves you so much?
I must go to his house and tell his wife that he came bursting into my place like a lunatic and stole my ring.
Are you planning on showing me all your wit at once?
At my house.
Your wives, your daughters, your old women, and your young maids together could not satisfy my lust.
Antipholus, aren’t you originally from Corinth?
Is this the cure for my aching bones?
No, you have to forget all that now.
Then tell them to treat us well.
Is it possible that any crime could be so valuable?
Don’t go out today.
He’s going to look like a total idiot.
Caesar resents me, but he loves Brutus.
They’re out to get me, and I won’t stand for it!
No, it’s permanent.
Do you want to go in and join the party?
We’ll do our duty to you, sir.
Now, you lie there on the path.
I didn’t order it.
When he loses that, he’ll be drinking salt water, since I’ll never tell him where the freshwater springs are.
Tut, tut, my lord, we’re not going to stand around chit-chatting.
Come on then.
He’s somewhere else in the house.
Therefore, you should obey their wishes.
Like the  Oh stop it, you lusty bed-hopper.
He’s a traitor.
There are two opposite elements in everything, in men as well as in herbs—good and evil.
What is it, Laertes?
Then lead the way, father.
If he’s caught, he’ll never make trouble for anyone again.
Whom should we look for in the castle?—Whose job is it?
You’ve been competing with this king for my daughter.
And now who but you knows whether I’m yours?
Let it go.
Goodbye, my lord.
Even her worst faults are charming, and holy priests bless her even when she acts the slut.
Silvius, keep your promise to marry Phoebe if she refuses me.
But honestly, I should have been a woman.
If you behave yourself and join us in our circle dance and moonlight celebrations, then you can come with us.
Tell me the truth.
You thought about it too long, considering what you found there.
If our secret’s known, either Caesar or I will die, for I’ll kill myself.
Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
Gentleness is the only way to go—gently, gently.
Go away.
This paper tells me of ten thousand Frenchmen who lie dead on the battlefield.
Your death and destiny advise your followers to escape.
At Friar Lawrence’s cell she can make confession and be married.
I have a pretty good ear for music.
Sometimes snakes wrap around me, hissing at me with their forked tongues till I go crazy.
More and more pain for us.
I am ready for you.
Take in the wheeled canons with their deadly gaping mouths trained on the walled city of Harfleur.
Get him, he’s a thief!
We’d find that he was a dangerous plotter.
You aren’t wood, you aren’t stones—you’re men.
Don’t cry, don’t cry.
That part of his reputation will stand.
This doesn’t look like a wedding.
Your voice is loud and commanding, but you look like a working man.
Now I’m alone.
No, madam.
You’re not really my daughter, but I still have one daughter left.
There’s a farmer here who won’t leave without seeing your Highness.
Sounds good to us.
Do you make your living by playing that drum?
Gentle boy, good night.
Give me what I deserve, and do your duty!
She didn’t ask anything?
It would be bad if she knew about Benedick’s love and teased him about it.
Signior Leonato, listen to the friar’s plan.
And now you claim you gave it to a judge’s clerk!
That’s true.
If she gave you as much lip as she gives me, you’d be sick of her by now.
What’s the matter?
Then I’ll see you again?
Yes, I do, sir.
So, where should we eat? 
I think you’re denying what you really are.
The worst thing imaginable has happened.
His running away has everything to do with fear and nothing to do with love.
Keep an eye on her.
That’s why there must be space between you. 
No one admires speed more than the lazy.
Alas, he is too young.
Talk to the ambassadors who’ve just come back
I’ll move to a more open place and there speak to great Caesar as he walks past.
Oh, she could sing a wild bear to sleep!
Only describing what you have ruined.
I’ll be bitter toward him, and curt.
You’ll hear more from me by midnight.
It’s a good shilling, I promise you.
My generosity to you is as limitless as the sea, and my love is as deep.
Go home to bed, Francisco.
I came from Corinth, Your Highness.
Pile of dirt!
For love to appear in his true likeness, he would have to be as Cupid is
Here, here, sir!
Only men whom you wouldn’t trust anyway would swear oaths, and for the worst reasons.
Do you hear that, men?
This is the door.
Then see a good one for me.
You told me that you don’t salute at the court but kiss hands.
Has he asked for me?
I’m afraid to think how I’ll be criticized for letting my natural affection for my father give way to my loyalty to you.
And when he laughs, Othello will go crazy.
Good duke, come receive your daughter.
And make sure to carry a prayer book in your hand and to stand between two priests, okay?
There they go, Silver!
Come here, man.
Where do I live?
Why would Titania want to argue with her Oberon?
He was like that time of year halfway between the extremes of hot and cold
He has to pay the price for his foolish actions.
When I have the juice of that flower, I’ll trickle some drops of it on Titania’s eyes while she’s sleeping.
Oh, my good master!
If anyone doubts this, let him put me on trial.
I’ll do so.
The handkerchief!
We thank your Honor.
But you turn that sun into a shadow.
Send the necklace to her, or send me with a token that will authorize her to pay me.
What’s your name, please, friend?
And don’t we have passions, and a taste for fun, and weaknesses, just like men?
Shut up, fool.
Another studpid answer!
Don’t make me wait for dinner even a moment.
What’s the problem, that they cry out so loud?
Please give me a little credit!
He constantly offends me.
He can’t be Fortune; he’s only Fortune’s errand boy.
Wow, he’s a real devil.
When devils are about to commit their biggest sins they put on their most heavenly faces, just like I’m doing now.
There must be some mistake, sir.
And I see you survived your time in Egypt.
No braver than this?
You can’t force me any more than Hermia can beg me.
Please be careful.
If you enjoy looking at your awful deeds, take a look at this noteworthy example of your butcheries.
Yes ,madam.
We’re unprepared for this wedding celebration.
How is she?
They told me I was everything.
You should ask instead if it’s possible that any criminal could be so rich.
Stay there and fortify it well against the French.
Here’s the indictment of the good Lord Hastings, which has been written out in a clear hand, like any legal document, so it can be read aloud in public outside St. Paul’s Cathedral.
We thought you ought to know about it.
When did you become so fond of singing, boy?
The fact that he serves as a go-between for his lord and my niece Olivia confirms this.
A mature age.
I’m waiting here for the general, and I don’t want him to see me with a woman.
Did you hear this, Gonzalo?
It doesn’t matter if it’s in tune so long as it’s loud enough.                      
Challenge the count’s young servant to a fight.
It hangs like an old worn-out mop.
Quiet now!
Halt!
I am a villain.
With him out of Venice, I can make whatever bargains I want when I lend money.—Go, Tubal.
Go away and take your children.
How did we manage to get ashore?
You kiss like you’ve studied how.
Spoken like a brave man who respects his reputation.
I’m not sad, my lord.
The noble Brutus told you that Caesar was ambitious.
Bow to him, fairies, and curtsy to him.
Run and proclaim it in the streets.
But if you see a wheel going uphill, latch on for the ride.
I’ll talk to you again tomorrow.
Will we hear from you before bedtime, Catesby?
Did you send for him, sir?
If you can prove that I’ll ever be so in love that I can’t be brought to my senses with a good round of beers, you can pluck out my eyes with a love-poet’s pen and hang me on a brothel’s door where the picture of blind Cupid usually goes.
Wherever he goes, he inspires compassion and people turn against us.
Have you heard any news of impending battle?
Don’t worry, Baptista, you’ll be perfectly satisfied.
I’ll go back inside and ask the lady for some kind of escort.
Ha, ha, heard in Genoa.
Are you a married man or a bachelor?
Or maybe there’s a chance he didn’t drown.—What do you think, sailors?
Go to the church.
Lysander, where are you going with all this?    
As for Antony, I’m not interested in his requests.
But as of right this second all these things are yours.
I’m ready to hear you.
Why, what symptoms of love does she exhibit?  
Rob them of the ability to count before the numbers against them overwhelm their courage.
But in loving me, you would love the friend of France, for I love France so much that I will not part with a single village of it.
Hear me out, my lord.
Oh, she’s ten times nicer than her father is mean, and he’s the height of crabbiness.
I’ll do what I can to make you even more comfortable.
Confess and love” is more like it.
I was ordered not to.
Endless greed and lust in a man’s nature is a kind of tyranny.
I’ll stand guard with you tonight.
Now that you are down there, you look like someone dead in the bottom of a tomb.
Would it be better if I were that, instead of what I am?
You are your father’s daughter.
Great God of heaven, say amen to all this!
Is it daytime?
Isn’t that strange?
About as old as you are, my lord.
Dat it not be de custom pour les ladies of France—I cannot tell vat is  To kiss.
But have you put the love juice from the flower on the eyes of that Athenian, as I asked you to do?
One of them was a man named Pinch
Sir Toby, madam, your relative.
Nothing that I know for sure, but a lot that I’m afraid might happen.
it pleases you, I’ll meet you in the marketplace at five and will keep you company until bedtime.
Whenever you’re ready, hostess.
Oh, lovely.
Suffer love!
You lie.
Be as lazy and neglectful as you like around him—you and the other servants.
You talk like a child, but you’re very smart anyway.
And now, my friends, my courageous and educated friends, do me one small favor.
Believe me, King of Illusions, I made a mistake.
A man old Frederick, your father, loves.
Welcome, gentlemen.
Right on cue, here’s the duke himself.
It does have a back like a weasel’s.
Where is the fool I sent on ahead?
He used to lend money as a favor between Christians; but now, let him think about his own debt.
Where did she die?
Do you really think so?
In an instant we were separated from them, as if in a dream, and brought here in a daze.    
If he hadn’t been drunk, he would’ve really roughed you up.
I have made your daughter mine by marriage while false impressions blinded your eyes.
The ship was already sailing.
You have to contradict me, do you?
I’m sure the duke will never allow this contract to be enforced.
What did I keep for myself?
What’s the news among the merchants?
There’s no scarier wild bird than the living lion, and we should remember that.
But these days, people give each other their hands without their hearts.
But then I do you wrong to say as much, since you are the very embodiment of bravery.
What do you want?
No?
You have to be patient with me.
I’ll obey you until I can make bail.
Because it will make you angry, and that will get me another beating.
Who was it that came here?
Give us answers.
My lord!
I was so crazy myself that I forgot all about him.
But I must go there, against my will
May you choke on any other sentiments like that!
I’m Christopher Sly, son of old Sly of Barton-on-Heath, a peddler by birth, a  Oh, this is why your poor wife is mourning!
But since you’re his scoundrel servant, I will.
Check on your daughter, your house, your money!
I’m bleeding, but you didn’t kill me.
If I know my own thoughts and desires, and I’m not dreaming or crazy—which I’m sure I’m not—then, dear uncle, I’ve never had so much as a half-formed thought that would have offended you.
My hands are tainted if they hit an inferior, especially since I myself am the cause of my own distress.
They were villains, murderers.
Oh, how stupid!
I will, madam.
God save the king!
Thank you for saying that, your Worship, but we’re just the poor duke’s officers.
If we flee from the boar before the boar even pursues us, we’ll only make the boar angry and suspicious, causing him to chase us when he never intended to.
And I’ll turn you into a spirit like us, so you won’t die as humans do.—Come here, Peaseblossom, Cobweb, Moth, and Mustardseed!
The merchandise you bring from Rome is too expensive for me.
It’s wrong, and I’m starting to realize I’m being cheated!
Come, tailor, show it to us.
A woman more beautiful than the one I love?
Oh, a thousand times worse, a thousand times—and what a sweet personality she has!
All this fighting is because of you.
Young gentleman, you are too bold for your age.
She’s not going to borrow money from them.
He’s very handsome.
No, you won’t die yourself, but only by proxy.
Yes, she saw me quite clearly.
But I have the meantime.
But not for long; Charles will take care of everything.
Yes, but I know— What do you know?
And I’m her father as well.
It would be easier to do it in the dark.
I can read my own fortune in my misery.
That’s me.
You’re most welcome.
Don’t delay.
He ran out that way, sir, when he couldn’t— Follow him, now!
It’s always better to get rid of what you’re scared of than to be afraid.
And tell her, listen to me, on Wednesday—Wait—What day is today?
Lysander I want to stop, but Hermia stops my heart from beating.
Come on.
Has Banquo left the court?
But mortals like you aren’t allowed to hear this description of the afterlife.
Most noble sir, stand up.
I will, my lord.
Then run away.
Well, we were all born to die.
If this is a dream, let me keep on sleeping!
And it’s all your fault.
Take my remark in whichever sense you like.
Treason!
That’s the one, sir.
Until you get back, Nerissa and I will live like virgins and widows.
Of course.
So don’t think that I’m drunk.
Instead, she puts flowers in the boy’s hair and makes a fuss over him. 
You have to be patient, madam.
From there we’ll safely carry you to France and back, calming the waters of the Channel to provide you with a smooth voyage.
Everything’s fine now.
You knew—no one knew, no one knew as well as you did—about my daughter’s plans to run away.
If you pay too much attention to him you’ll make him angry, and that will make his convulsions go on longer.
Look, I have a weapon, the best sword a soldier could have.
As you wish, sir.
There must be a strange explanation for this—if it’s true.
If you can love a man of this temperament, Kate, whose face a sunburn wouldn’t make any worse and who never looks in the mirror to admire himself, let your eye improve me.
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
You know me well.
Goneril, are you coming with us?
Oh wife, look at how our daughter bleeds!
Ambassadors of Harry, king of England, request a hearing with your Majesty.
Am I in France?
Are those my tents on fire?
But listen to me; let me guide you.
I think of as many things as he does, but I just thank heaven and don’t show off about it.
Look at all the devoted servants who work for their masters their whole lives for nothing but their food, and then when they get old they’re terminated.
What are we going to do, Enobarbus?
I’ll leave you, lady.
That’s just what he said in the letter.
He’s not here.
Good monster!
I won’t until I’m ready.
Go get some water and wash this bloody evidence from your hands.
Please forgive and forget.
Come on, servant, come.
Worthy sir, greetings!
I’ll take all who served Brutus into my service.
Has she told Benedick how she feels?
No doubt, for you wear too many in the first place, and it might be more seemly to make do with fewer.
What’s up, daughter and niece?
It’s true, he died on the day my sister turned thirteen.
And I for Rosalind.
But, unfortunately, Caesar has to bleed if we’re going to stop him.
Is he right?
Please, leave me alone.
But men tend to interpret things however suits them and totally miss the actual meaning of the things themselves.
Now what?
You can argue as much as you like when there’s nothing else to do.
Fair enough.
It’s not in the contract.
You wouldn’t tell a sick man he “seriously” has to make his will—it would just make him worse.
But that would ruin his reputation!
You’ll find me ready enough to do that, sir, if you give me a reason.
Appear before me now quickly— No talking.
Where’s the Queen?
It seems to me that your voice has changed, and that your speech is more elegant than it used to be.
Tell me to tear up this contract.
giving it back to him.
I haven’t seen him recently.
And whoever lives to see that day Will walk with his feet.
A rebel!
I hope sores cover your tongue for a wish like that!
Rub his temples.
Do not run away.
But tell me honestly, are you sure you’re not insane?
Our army shall somberly attend this funeral and then depart for Rome.
Do you know Fluellen?
Oh, I’m dying of hunger.
Take her to my tent.
And when you get married, I hope I can be married at the same time.
Tonight I received a letter from my sister telling me all about them—and warning me not be at home in case they come to stay at my house.
Please let her speak.
I tell you, you can use it to get your shoes fixed.
I’ll sleep over here.
Make him think you’re Sir Topas the priest.
A little before twelve, I think.
What do kings have that private men do not, besides the pomp of their position?
And, gentle Puck, take this transformed ass’s head off of the head of that Athenian man, so that when he wakes up at the same time as the rest of them do, they can all go back to Athens.
I’ll give the first one, Pompey.
Oh, she knew very well that you were acting like you were in love without really knowing what love means.
This is exactly the false way that verses gallop along.
Who’s that calling so loud?
I make the laws, not you.
Reading their mail isn’t as bad.
There was never a mother who suffered so much loss.
Is this true?
I should have reprimanded you then for not bringing it, but you started fighting with me first.
Whoa, man, you dare to support someone who’s been proclaimed a traitor?
Along the way, I’ll find an opportunity to separate him from the queen’s proud relatives, as step one in the plan we’ve discussed.
I’ll kill myself to save myself from slavery.
Go away.
Let’s not talk about it.
Frightening looks are also at my service, as are fake smiles.
I’ve had enough of this “off with you!” Come on, let me in!
I know that Regan will taste just like Goneril—both of them sour crabapples.
Take me to the edge of it, and I’ll reward all your troubles with something valuable.
What’s that noise?
Set it down.
Yours, if we’re talking about  I’m leaving.
No more talk about my father; you’ll be whipped for slander one of these days.
I’ll tell her.
I’ll meet it if it’s the last thing I do.
I’m not going to be bothered by you for long.
Caesar and Antony have always achieved more by delegating authority to their officers than by leading their troops in person.
Everyone there got a little crazy and pulled some desperate stunts.
I’ll give you letters of introduction to some friends of mine who will help you.
The candle is burning in your study, sir.
Calm down, Smulkin, you fiend!
I know it.
I have responsibilities in this war, and as the absolute ruler of my kingdom I will carry out my duties as if I were a man.
I hope she doesn’t have a crush on me!
Our army has recently acquired many of Mark Antony’s former soldiers—enough to capture him.
What did he say?
Let’s go, then!
Unless your taunts can undo the signature on my contract, you’re just wearing out your lungs by speaking so loud.
She would hang on to him, and the more she was with him the more she wanted to be with him; she couldn’t get enough of him.
If we let crimes like this happen, slaves and heathens will be our rulers.
A drunkard or a corpse?
Death didn’t conquer 
Yes, he did.
These two Antipholuses, who look so alike—and these two Dromios, who seem to have the same face—and her story of being shipwrecked—why, these two are the parents of these children and have been reunited by accident.
Damn it!
Everyone can see that, and even blind men can smell the stench of his misery now.
You have my word as a gentleman that I’ll always be grateful to you.
I will mourn Hero tonight.  
I’d rather cut my tongue out of my mouth than say anything bad about Michael Cassio.
This is your job.
If either of you knows any secret reason why you two should not be joined in marriage, I order you on your souls to say so.
And Benedick is not the worst husband I can think of.
Then there’s still a chance.
A better example—come on.
Into God’s hands.
And if anything important happens, find me and let me know.
My niece, you are welcome here as if you were my own daughter.
What’s going on, Malvolio?
Cheer up!
Chop off his head.
If the devil had such a beautiful house as his body, then good things would fight to live in it.
I’m not a slut—I keep myself clean—but I thank God I am ugly.
Right now I’d give a thousand 
I’ll be obedient and do all my tasks without complaining.
I won’t be gone long.
The Queen will be treated fairly if she gives me up?
How do you both plead?
I’m sure everything will be fine.
But oh, poor Glou-cester!
I’ve brought him a present.
What do you want?
Now please stop being so strange and tell me what exactly I should blab to my lady.
My grandmother told me he was murdered there.
No, lady.
My husband is alive on earth, my vows of marriage are in heaven.
Oh, my liege, my wife died tonight.
Is the worst well?
A second Daniel!—A Daniel, Jew!
Listen!
It’s my best option
The point is that she didn’t write this letter.
What, isn’t my mother coming?
Their sweet smells come from those little freckles.
She has the stones on her, and the ducats.” I know, all the boys in Venice are following him, yelling, “His stones, his daughter, and his ducats!”
Oh, that bird from hell!
Why, too much freedom leads to woe.
If they seek battle with us, have them come down or else clear the field.
I’ve felt neglected recently, but I decided that it was more likely that I was being hypersensitive than that they were intentionally unkind.
In your own kitchens you act like wildcats.
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow.
The fool will stay.
I shook you and shouted at you, sir.
I owe you a lot, and like a spoiled kid I’ve lost what I owe you.
The wind is filling your ship’s sail, and they’re waiting for you.
By my faith in love, I will, then.
In the first act he is an infant, whimpering and puking in his nurse’s arms.
Prepare yourselves, generals.
Did he cry?
Are these spirits we see before us?
In Alexandria he condemned Rome, and that’s not all.
That’s better than exaggerating our trust.
Their names are marked.
Well, aren’t you a good man?
And how he loves Caesar!
How did you get this letter?
People who want to start a big fire quickly start with little twigs.
Little birds do it, and dragonflies copulate right in front of me.
Have you seen him today?
By my count, I was already your mother at just about your age, while you remain a virgin.
She’s only sad when she sleeps—and not even then.
Should I get your nightgown?
I don’t think a ridiculous Pyramus like that one deserves much moaning.
But come on, inconsistent young man, come with me.
With that, I’ll be off.
Welcome to Cyprus.
Dromio, tell the servants to prepare for lunch.
He’s coming, ma'am.
You thought you were being funny, but you said the truth.
Yes, probably, because I’m staying for lunch.
He needs to see you right away.
Yes, sir, they’re ready.
So, please, my lord, don’t assume that I’m treacherous just because I’m poor, with no titles to my name.
Those who have done this deed are honorable.
I want to use this money to set my father free.
No, they’re busy and as excellent as ever.
Listen to him talk about war, and you’ll hear elegant and thrilling accounts of the battles.
Just like the rabbit, who lives where she is born.
So let’s see it.
If you do intend to live, then mourn.
Please have a seat.
The other half goes to the state.
Oh, there’s my lady!
Therefore, I beg your Highness, pardon me.
I don’t think you would.
Is it time, my Lord Constable?
Either you, or I, or both of us have to go with him.
Yes, and that’s surprising, because lovers are usually early.
If you’re as poor a subject as he is a king, you definitely are poor.
Help us, good friends.
I found him here,  Beating?
For assuredly, you are so near the abyss that you’re bound to be swallowed up.
Then she has no choice but to hate you, as you purchased her love with murder.
You’re talking in such a crazy way, sir.
Nothing.
Come with me.
Good-bye.
Start a fight?
Lucentio, sir.
Killed?
This is my treasurer.
He seems cheerful.
Take three times your money.
Cry, “whoa!” to your tongue, please.
Forgotten you!
Ha!
You’re the one I have to obey.
Error in the bill, sir, error in the bill!
Give me your hand, and explain your situation to me.
He made this rope ladder to be a highway to my bed, but I am a virgin, and I will die a virgin and a widow.
I’ll disguise myself in somber robes.
It’s fair for him to treat me like this, very fair.
My noble kinsman, welcome.
No, he just smiles.
Lorenzo, please take charge of the management of my house until my husband comes back.
She’s dead, deceased, she’s dead.
Shake my hand.
How’s it going, Shylock?
You unwashed farmworker!
Go now and get cash.
How’s it going?
I did, sir, but it didn’t answer me.
Oh, what a sinful thought!
I could be sad if I wanted to be.
It would please him very much if you would rely on his wealth and success to support you.
Please, give me that goblet, if you love me.
My lady Olivia’s inside, sir.
Here comes the Emperor.
You are as well provided in both respects as any prince in the world.
Hush, Hortensio.
Fruits and vegetables don’t ripen until the right season of the year.
But wait, there’s some prose after her poem.
I know all of this.
Just being thanked is more than enough for me, madam.
Oh, young and noble Cato, have you been slain?
Either I had to ruin you, or you would have ruined me.
I’ve heard about this indirectly, but I will send for him.
Are you afraid to act the way you desire?
Farewell.
Go look and then do the talking yourselves.
Leave them alone, and do the murder first.
If they do this, as they will, God willing, my ransom will soon be raised.
What’s important is to be prepared.
Oh, he’s good at bending words around!
Stay in the dark.
The will!
And even though you know I’m very close to the Prince and Claudio, I swear I’ll keep your counsel and deal with this secretly and justly.
My God, do you think I’m easier to manipulate than a pipe?
So then why should I offer this womanish defense that I’m innocent?
I’ll give him some liquor.
As sane as me?
He’s called Modo and Mahu.
I swear to God I’ll get revenge.
What you wanted is yours.
You truly did.
Say something, man!
Don’t you know that I have offered these bones of mine for ransom?
He’ll tell them so.
I drew my sword to part them.
You’re a smart guy.
It is a trade, sir, that I practice with a clear conscience.
In this recent storm.
Throw some of your words at me.
He thinks that since his fortune is twenty times better than yours, it would be like pitting twenty men against one.
You might have a great opportunity to give it to him right now.
Well, you’re a liar, then.
And you won’t until the needy eat.
Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius, Publicola, and Caelius will go by sea, but we’ll keep the bulk on land.
I only want idiots following my advice, the advice of a fool.
Just as I told you, he usually sleeps in the afternoon.
Nothing but cruel daughters could have degraded him like this.
He carries himself like a dignified gentleman, and, to tell you the truth, he has a reputation throughout Verona as a virtuous and well-behaved young man.
Then the window lets day in, and life goes out the window.
No, before!
You’re on.
Do you want to exchange fathers?
You stupid fool!
No, no, no, no!
Choose your revenge.
Listen they’re howling.
Not so fast.
Do you know his plans?
But though I was born here and should consider that tradition part of my own heritage, I think it would be better to ignore it than practice it.
Oh, good old man, you’re a great example of that old work ethic, where people worked because it was their duty, not just for the money.
What, are you dead, my dove?
Go, bring him here, boy.
But for whose sake did I do that sick deed?
You’d better get me  But does he know that I’m here in the forest and dressed in men’s clothing?
I think I can guess what you’re about to say.
I sent the king’s son off by himself to a faraway nook on the island, where he’s sitting now sighing, with his arms crossed like this.
He’s killed his wife!
But thinking like this won’t help me choose a husband.
It has caused the downfall of many kings.
Tranio, I saw her coral-pink lips move and perfume the air with her breath.
With one little toss of his head, He can scare you off for good.
Did you inform them of that?
Therefore, depart, and leave him here with me.
He’ll recover his sanity there.
If I may say so, your Majesty, your famous grandfather and your great-uncle Edward, the Black Prince of Wales—or so I’ve read in the history books—fought a very brave battle here in France.
Other than Richard, even those whom we fight against would rather we won.
Yes, on his front.
But it’s true—I don’t want to get all mushy and go on and on, but the good Antonio, the honest Antonio—oh, if I only had a title good enough to match his!— Come on, get to the point.
I’ll never believe any of these old legends or fairy tales.
Please, come with me.
Just look.
Come on, close the curtain, Nerissa.
Either put away your sword or use it to help me stop this fight.
Now two things still need to be done.
Why, his cuckold’s horns, of course—the kind you men are always blaming on your wives.
Has Romeo killed himself?
Under Captain Gower, my liege.
That’s not in her favor.
But if you believe everything they say, you won’t be saved by half of what they do.
Check the calendar and come tell me.
Say something.
With any luck, the sea and new countries will push out these thoughts that have somehow taken root in his mind.
It was armed, you say?
Isn’t it past two o'clock?
I’d be very grateful to you if you did.
If you fight to protect your wives, your wives will welcome you home as conquerors.
It will heal and be as good as new, and we’ll be threatened by its fangs once again.
We’ve been betrayed!
You there, rogue, what do you have to say about that?
Let me help you up.
Did you see him enter this abbey?
Here he comes.
Stop, for God’s sake!
Really, my lord, I don’t know what to make of it, but she loves him with such a passion that it’s past all understanding.
You’ve heard something you shouldn’t have.
He’s going after a young widow.
What is this spirit that looks like the son of a king and wears a crown on his young head?
How excellent for Antony!
Farewell, farewell!
I’ll do the best I can, my lord.
Come on, Nerissa, I want to go see this man who’s come so courteously.
Holy Franciscan Friar!
I know you’ll say “yes,” and I’ll believe you.
Then I guess I was misled.
Let him go, Gertrude.
Birnam Wood.
If I’m not mistaken, that’s Portia’s voice.
I’ll give you such reasons for killing him that you’ll feel obliged to snuff him out.
Why are you making them work so hard?
When you were wooing Desdemona, did Michael Cassio know about it?
I’ll call you “Hamlet Senior,” “King,” “Father,” “royal Dane.” Answer me!
Let’s go!
Not that we love words more than fighting, like you do.
If not, what can you do about it?
creet.
Leave, you little man.
My master said it.
Forty thousand brothers, if you added all their love together, couldn’t match mine.
Do you recognize my voice, noble lord?
Are we all ready?
We’ll see, won’t we?
How is she?
I’m not well.
Look, sir, here comes the lady walking toward my cell.
And he would have deserved it too.
I’d better not drink now.
Assemble our squadrons on the other side of the hill, in sight of Caesar’s navy.
Oh, damn, damn, damn!
Now, we go contentedly to freedom—not banishment.
I beg your pardon, sir— What did that guy say?
I’m speechless.
Are you sitting around in this humiliation to amuse yourself?
Oh, I don’t know.
Indeed, I remember it well.
Then hurry up and tell me what you want.
Enough of this frivolous talk.
If we do, it’ll drive us crazy.
Favorably, except that there wasn’t enough time for his Grace to hear, as I sensed he would have liked to, the details about how he is rightfully entitled to certain dukedoms in France, and to the throne of France in general, through clear lines of descent originating with his great-grandfather, Edward III.
Who can say I mean just her when all her neighbors are exactly like her?
Oh, only time can sort out this mess.
Well, what was your dream?
I see that you are here, but I’d like you to go there and then come back again.
Sorrow interrupts all hours and seasons.
O Lord, I could stay here all night listening to such good advice.
You told me she got them, and that she promised to give me a little something in return soon, but nothing like that ever happens.
The French ambassador arrived at that moment and asked to see the king.
I’ll arrest him.
Orlando, my lord, the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.
Do you know the boy who was just speaking to me?
You should be ashamed of yourself, Satan, you liar!
Captain Macmorris, I think, see—correct me if I’m wrong—there are not many of your nation— My nation?
May the gods bless you.
What else?
Just as I did with the meat, I’ll make up some problem with the way the bed is made, and throw the pillow one way and the cushion the other, and the blanket over here and the sheets over there.
I’ll do any decent thing, my lord, to help my cousin get a good husband.
She’s insistent.
But I’ll marry you under different circumstances—with extravagant festivals, public festivities, and celebration.
I’ll commute your death sentence.
Take away this lout and whip him.
Say, what’s the trouble?
The king wants to speak with Cornwall.
You’d think everyone was asleep.
If you knew the reason, you’d understand and would urge me to go rather than stay.
Then he pulled a watch from his bag and, looking at it solemnly, said, “It’s ten o'clock.
Lord, Lord, when she was a little baby—Oh, there is one nobleman in the city, a guy named Paris, who would be happy to claim her as his own.
Then sing it.
I don’t like the way he’s acting, and it’s not safe for me to let his insanity get out of control.
Here it is, I think.
You should ask me what time of day it is, instead.
Please, keep it to yourself.
Royal seductress!
Grief seems to be contagious, for my eyes, seeing the tears in yours, began to fill.
A nice stool.
He can’t like her very long.
That doesn’t matter.
But as soon as the sun rises in the east, my sad son comes home to escape the light.
I could have sworn he trampled on me.
If we’d been able to put on our play, we would have had it made.
Are your men searching for him?
If you shut the windows, it will pour out the keyhole.
Why not?
I have a lot to do before noon.
Please go on.
Wait!
Don’t you hear it ring?
Don’t greet your bride in these disgraceful clothes.
I’ve heard that’s not the most nourishing food.
I’ll tell you, Cassius, you yourself have been called greedy and been accused of giving your positions to undeserving men in exchange for gold.
But please, father—the question is still nagging at me—why did you conjure up this storm?
He lets the bird hop a little from his hand and then yanks him back by a string.
Tongue, do not speak.
Let’s leave him.
I’ll pay you for your trouble.
Parting is such sweet sorrow that I’ll say good night until tonight becomes tomorrow.
What is your name?
This harms my reputation.
Madam, I will.
Come, let’s have an early dinner so that we have time to work out our plans.
Heart, for once be stronger than all the rest of the body combined.
Come on, let’s all go inside.
I have forgotten why I called you back.
Yes, God be praised, I have managed to earn his favor.
I’d write sad songs about unrequited love and sing them loudly in the middle of the night.
No, my dear, you were a little angel who kept me going.
I think I can find him.
There is nothing distinctive, nothing remarkable left in the world.
That’s really the best way to win the Moor back again.
Where is she?
Look, here comes the woman you love.
Didn’t you argue it out with your tailor for wearing one of his new suits before the right season?
The Dauphin, whom we asked for reinforcements, sends back the answer that he’s not yet in a position to raise so great an army.
Yes, sweet Rosalind.
Then get to work, poison!
Meanwhile, their  They’ve said their prayers, and now they wait for death.
You taught me language, and all I can do with it is curse.
You will be exhibited in Rome along with me, like Egyptian puppets.
But please, tell me the worst thing that could happen to me if I refuse to marry Demetrius.
Follow them, please.
Yes, I was, but I don’t want an answer from you.
When the day comes, I’ll wish it were nighttime, so I could sleep with the legal expert’s clerk.
So the pale, angry moon, who controls the tides, fills the air with diseases.
Draw your sword!
We’re friends!
By risking the second arrow, I’d often get both of them back.
But where is Kate?
I see a voice!
But let me see, by ten we shall each have captured a hundred Englishmen.
I’ll tell you.
Anyway, sir, should I go see the lady?
Orlando.
Cicero is dead, by their decree.
Well, that’s what the wife brings to the marriage.
If you could only hear this testament—which, excuse me, I don’t intend to read aloud—you would kiss dead Caesar’s wounds and dip your handkerchiefs in his sacred blood, and beg for a lock of hair to remember him by.
Let them last forever.
Therefore, every soldier should do as any man who is sick in his bed would do
I saw Bassanio and Antonio say goodbye.
We are used to winning by standing on the earth and fighting toe to toe.
I assure you, sir, it’s true.
Now all is for nothing.
Oh Lord, who’s that crying?
Lucentio!
Was Queen Cordelia aggrieved by the letters you delivered?
I didn’t see him.
My lord.
Amen.
Why, who’s so stupid that he can’t see through this fraud?
On the platform where we stand guard, sir.
I will go out.
Run, master, run.
Duke, please go ahead with your state business.
So how did it go, sir?
Her father loved me and used to invite me to his house often, continually asking me about my life and all the battles I’ve fought.
Everything’s fine.
Despised, distressed, hated, martyred, killed!
You think it’s a big deal that this fierce storm is soaking me to the skin.
When should the three of us meet again?
I’m so crazy about you!
If you are human, don’t stand for it.
Go release them, Ariel.
Good-bye.
Like medicine for a sick man.
And if you treat us badly, won’t we try to get revenge?
Caesar’s sister is named Octavia.
He’s written you a letter.
I’ll torture him.
If you’re going to lend us this money, don’t lend it to us as if we were your friends.
The Queen is here, my lord.
Who’s shouting?
Live in the moment.
I’d never play pranks on you.
The heavens only announce the deaths of princes.
Are you thinking of buying her?
I could have blown up the town in an hour.
Mercutio, be quiet.
Yes, go ahead and moan, because you killed the sweetest, most innocent woman who ever lived!
Yes, ma'am.
Where did you die?
Come on, take control of your feelings.
It’s too bad.
Now, by my mother’s son, and that’s me, it will be moon or star or whatever I want before I’ll travel to your father’s house.
How amazing!
He’s given his empire to a whore, and now they’re gathering kings to wage a war.
You dog, you peasant!
Go away.
I have news from Rome, my good lord.
Yes, you have to tell us why, Sir Andrew.
Please don’t play games.
Are you speaking from your heart?
It’s as complete a work of villainy as any that could be thought up.
Let this anger sharpen your sword.
I’ve spelled it out for you clearly.
In the end I grudgingly consented.
So we need another prologue to tell everyone he’s not a real lion.
Many people have told me so.
This diamond is a present from him to your wife for her boundless hospitality.
You’ll be pricked all over, and it’ll sting like bees.
Women are like roses
You, my earthly moon, are now eclipsed, and that alone foretells my ruin.
You might as well do the impossible rather than try to soften his Jewish heart.
Cleopatra, our conquest won’t include either the things you kept back or the ones you listed.
Go ahead, I’ll yield to your power.
Caesar, you thought this would happen.
I can’t believe that.
All to our advantage.
Who’s sounding that alarm?
I should backtrack and begin with how my master, Don John, arranged for the Prince, Claudio, and himself to witness this friendly encounter from the orchard.
Wait.
Oh, my daughter!
No, someone has to give her away or the marriage isn’t legal.
Believe it.
I don’t think you’re treating me fairly.
I’ve proved my trustworthiness by giving myself a voluntary wound here in my thigh.
Everything is gloomy, dark, and dreadful.
And you, sweet Hero?
No, you were one of Gneius Pompey’s leftovers—not to mention your other, more depraved affairs, which have somehow managed to avoid becoming the subject of vulgar gossip.
Whip him!
I must go attend Caesar.
Yes, leave that labor to great Hercules—it’s worse than the previous twelve put together.  
Your sister’s sister.
I’m beginning to understand what you want me to do.
Therefore the dukes of Berri, Bretagne, Brabant, and Orléans shall advance, and you, Prince Dauphin, will swiftly entrench and fortify our fortress towns with men of courage and the means to defend themselves.
I represent her.
Was it you that he rescued?
I’ll beat him despite his fancy fencing techniques and all the practicing he does, despite his youth and manliness.
Cleopatra— Do you think there ever was, or could there ever be, a man such as the one I dreamed about?
I’ll talk to you more about this some other time.
I’ll go with you, my lord, if you’ll allow me.
Quickly, quickly, good Iras, quickly.
The glowworm’s light is beginning to fade, so morning is near.
For lead?
By God, I’ll go after him again and beat him up.
Didn’t you send Lysander, as an insult, to follow me around praising my eyes and my face?
That’s uncivilized and unnatural!
I don’t think there’s a single unhappy subject living under the protection of your government.
Oh, you men are made of stone!
Please wear this ring.
Your friend,      Artemidorus.” I’ll stand here until Caesar passes by, and I’ll give him this as though it’s a petition.
Just imagine some lady might exist who loves you as powerfully and agonizingly as you love Olivia.
They’re all ready to eat dinner.
I’ll go to Ireland.
And when she was here recently she flirted with Edmund and gave him significant glances.
Hide her for a while in your house, and tell everyone that she has, in fact, died.
Otherwise I would have been perfect, as solid as a piece of marble, as firm as a rock, as free as the air itself.
Well, sir, it’s true it came soon after.
Oh, sir, pardon me!
What else?
He tried to kill me recently, very recently.
I have done the deed.
A tailor made you.
Four o'clock in the morning.
I would rip his heart out in public and eat it.
My man Grumio!
He must be very near by now.
If we’re like you in everything else, we’ll resemble you in that respect.
I can tell you who time strolls for, who it trots for, who it gallops for, and who it stops cold for.
Come on, you can go.
I’ll be gentle and mild.
I’d give up my life and take my son’s place in the mud on the ocean floor if I could see them alive in Naples.—When did you lose your daughter?
We’ll see you tomorrow.
Take me to the garden.
As they pass by, grab Casca by the sleeve, and he’ll tell you if anything important happened today—in his usual sour way.
What’s new with you?
You’ll be sorry later, but it’ll be too late. 
Have you forgotten her?
I’m sorry my noble brother is suspicious of me.
First rehearse your song from memory, and make sure each note is pretty.
If he doesn’t show up, the play is ruined.
My plans are almost at their climax.
It’s called the evil.
Oh, eastern star!
She said if she were interested in someone, it would be someone who looked like me.
These kneelings and humble courtesies might excite ordinary men, flattering them into turning Roman law into children’s games.
Be quiet, you mumbling fool!
Unnatural acts will cause  Good night, good doctor.
Give a quick example.
Yours are slow and awkward.
Excellent.
Goodbye, then.
Will you wait awhile?
Wear both the ring and my heart, because both are yours.
If I live long enough to touch you again, that would be as good as having my eyesight back.
Less than a month after my father’s death, even before the tears on her cheeks had dried, she remarried.
But major issues must come before minor ones.
Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier; Sir Gilbert Talbot; Sir William Stanley; Oxford; the highly feared Pembroke; Sir James Blunt; Rice ap Thomas, with a valiant crew; and many other famous and powerful noblemen.
Three times in an hour I saw him down, and three times up again and fighting.
What is this?
Hastings loved the prince’s father so much that we won’t be able to persuade him to do anything against the prince.
Your words are idiotic.
Would he have snuck away from me while I was asleep?
They are full of pity for Caesar.
Yes, you are.
Come, husband, let’s go to lunch.
If not, then I’m a liar.
Where’s America and the West Indies?
If you’re happy with what you’ve won And accept this prize as your blissful destiny, Then turn to where your lady is, And claim her with a loving kiss.”
No, keep going, old man; don’t stop like that.
I don’t know whether he fought on Norway’s side, or if he secretly aided the rebels, or if he fought with both of our enemies.
I will choose this one and try my chances.
Come here, Sir Seacole.
There were no primary ones.
But I’ll go out of spite, to feed off the wasteful Christian.—Jessica, my girl, watch the house.
Neither will I.
But one word more— He will not be commanded by you.
I’ll go to the right side.
What victory does he bring home?
No, no, the bell.
Please, do so.
Put the goblets of wine on that table.
I’m a prince by birth, Miranda—maybe even a king now; though I wish I weren’t—and normally I wouldn’t put up with carrying these logs any more than I’d let flies breed in my mouth.
Our leader is being led.
I will do so.
Please, I beg you, don’t scold me.
You sent for me, sir?
Margaret, run into the sitting room.
joy except my love for you, and I find that only your majesty’s love makes me happy.
Day and night, hour after hour, all the time, at work, at play, alone, in company, my top priority has always been to find her a husband.
I want to learn how to lie.
Take up the body.
But wait, what’s that sound?
Do you have news from Verona!—What is it, Balthasar?
I could go around the world in forty minutes.
Why, he won’t wake up till Judgment Day.
Come, here’s some sauce to go with it.
Tell your master there is no sound basis for his worries.
Sir, is it possible that a person could fall in love so suddenly?
Who’s the spokesman for Edmund, Earl of Gloucester?
Well then, God forgive me!
Saint Davy’s Day has passed.
I loved wine and gambling, and had more women than a Turkish sultan keeps in his harem.
Don’t worry about me not swearing enough.
Normally I would ask you what your name is first.
When I tried desperately to question them further, they vanished into thin air.
This fellow will out-talk us all.
The main body of the army is expected here any hour now.
Be lenient, dearest!
The duke will be here tonight?
How did you learn about this?
rules my life.” Hmm, let me see, let me see, let me see.
I’m afraid the people have made Caesar their king.
He rejected my authority as much as yours.
Against my will, I’ve been told to bring you in to dinner.
Not me.
Where is she now?—What, will my hands never be clean?—No more of that, my lord, no more of that.
Come on, sir, will you come aboard?
Keep your promise, my love.
Look, she’s come home from confession with a happy look on her face.
I’m sorry to hear this.
Phoebe wrote it.
Here in Verona there are girls younger than you—girls from noble families—who have already become mothers.
And so the Jew may lawfully claim a pound of flesh nearest the merchant’s heart, to be cut off by him.—But please have mercy.
Maybe we can benefit from the same chaos that has defeated us.
Be silent, or else my magic spell will be broken.
Oh, you prophesied that the time would come when I would want your help in cursing that humpbacked spider, that hideous toad!
My God, this is unbelievably strange.
So the cooks who can’t lick their fingers aren’t hired.
But I won’t let myself fall for him any more than your permission allows.
Accept it in body and spirit.
He’s a good fellow, I can tell you that much.
Your wife, Fulvia, is dead.
Here he comes.
Then you and I and all of us fell down, while bloody treason triumphed.
He really is the most skillful, bloodthirsty, and dangerous opponent you can find in Illyria.
You old traitor, repent all your sins.
Night is approaching.
Here, sir!
Come, sweet nymphs, and help us celebrate the wedding of two true lovers.
She creeps along.
But he kept chattering so foolishly, talking about you in such insulting and despicable terms, that it was hard for me to restrain myself.
Get out of my sight!—I guess if she doesn’t love her father, then I’ll only have peace when I’m dead.—Call the King of France.
So it’s nearly the time when the ghost likes to appear.
Oh, it sounded like a sweet breeze blowing gently over a bank of violets, taking their scent with it.
I’ve hired five hundred almsmen to hold up their withered hands to heaven, praying for my pardon twice a day throughout the year.
We’ll take you there.
No, I’m as honest as I am Christian.
Good.
If we are slated to die, the fewer, the better for our country, and if we’re slated to live, the fewer men, the greater the share of honor for each of us.
I’ll get there first and tell him what we found out.
You can’t get any more money out of me right now.
What a fine sight!
I heard the galloping of horses.
I tell you truly, in true English
Every heart in Rome loves and pities you.
I bet I’ve been wrong about myself all this time.
Watch Cassius.
Speak.
Yes, he’s the one who first told me about her.
Once he’s carried our treasure where we want it, we’ll free him of the load and turn him loose like a jackass, to shake his ears and graze in the public pastures.
My Italy is full of civil war.
Are you coming monster?
Indeed, you have wronged me, you liar.
It’s obvious.
Actors can’t keep a secret.
Lady, come out of the tomb.
He’s insane.
That’s excellent.
He must’ve heard that phrase describing some great man and now he’s using it on a jester.
I’ll have Herod’s head chopped off!
Sweet, sweet, sweet Nurse, tell me, what did my love Romeo say?
What do you have to say to me?
Now my spells are all broken, And the only power I have is my own, Which is very weak.
He’s married, madam.
He’s been gone for nine years and he’s leaving again soon.
Go to bed, dear.
Of all the strange things I’ve ever heard, it seems most strange to me that men fear death, given that death, which can’t be avoided, will come whenever it wants.
Young budding virgin, fair and pure and sweet, where are you off to?
An angel is walking on earth.
This is Antonio, my dearest friend.
Come on, we’re wasting precious daylight.
Was he pale or flushed and red-faced?
Yes, I should know, but it disturbs me.
Lovell, go as fast as you can to Doctor Shaw.
I beg your pardon.
I made you de facto rulers of my kingdom on condition that I could keep a hundred knights of my own.
I’ll torment them all till they roar with pain.
Either my eyesight is failing me, or you look pale.
In saving you I consider myself well paid.
You!
If this were a play, I’d complain it was unrealistic.
Right, and they wore proclamations around their necks, saying, “Be it known to all men by these  The eldest of the three brothers wrestled with Charles, the duke’s wrestler.
I don’t want to have anything to do with you anymore.
Is that a good idea, do you think?
It was a painful bruise, and she was crying bitterly.
I’ll tell you privately.
Where is your army, then, to beat him back?
But goodbye.
Don’t say that, Lysander.
Bring out the stocks!
Just as Antony loves.
I’ll write down what she says, so I’ll remember it better.
You are what’s left of the noblest man that ever lived.
But his frail heart, too weak to grapple with such a conflict between joy and sadness, gave out.
Let me say first, madam, that he is well.
Was he sent by Count Orsino?
And here’s my mistress, Titania.
Now go, leave me.
I say “force” because Brutus would rather I stuck sharp blades and poisoned arrows in his ears than fill them with this.
To be brief—as the occasion requires—prepare to fight early in the morning, when your future will be decided.
Oh Lord, my spirits are tired!
The English have promised me thousands of troops.
Well.
The servants Macbeth killed.
Yes, it’s Emilia.
Here’s something good.
Give me your hand.
Look here, this is the entrance to his room.
When such a great man dies there should be a thunderclap.
Will you come with me to hear this news, sir?
They’re ready whenever you are.
We’ll bring him to his house with shouts and celebration!
Eat and sleep.
I hope this explanation will stand as my excuse.
The man who brought my answer to you was a fool.
I don’t want to play now.
Young man, have you challenged Charles the Wrestler?
Well, Susan died and is with God.
Bring me some light, gentlemen, I’ll bind the wound with my shirt.
Signior Balthasar, you look upset.
In a half an hour he’ll be asleep.
I hope to God Othello’s all right.
The house will be so much quieter.
Yeah, that would get every single one of us executed.
He’s shouting at the wind to blow the earth into the sea, or make the sea flood the earth—he wants to see the world return to primal chaos.
I’ll give you the most expensive ring in Venice, and I’ll make a public announcement to help me find it.
I hate it and want all good men’s love.
Now we wear the wreaths of victory on our heads.
Ophelia, come here.—   I hear him coming.
You are the best of the cutthroats.
What’s the news, my good friends?
For three months.
More or less.
I’m sure he had more hair on his tail than I have on my face when I last saw him.
So I die with a kiss.
Send him on his way quickly.
I will walk around and mingle with all of you, playing the humble host.
No, he refused it publicly, in open court.
Disrespected in my own house by a spool of thread!
You’re right, sir.
Yes, Desdemona.
And, just in time, here comes the sweaty lord.
You speak absolutely correctly, sir.
It’s a measly little cap, a dessert crust, a plaything, a silk pie.
If he is, that’s his problem.
Did you talk with him?
So Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are in for it.
Strange and terrible events are all welcome, but I despise comforts.
I told him you were sick.
Here comes the Prince and Claudio.
The one the Moor gave to Desdemona, which you asked me to steal so many times.
Madam, here comes your husband.
Othello?
On what grounds?
But you had bad blood in you, no matter how much you learned, and good people couldn’t stand to be near you.
You are dead!
I can assure you that no enemy will ever take the noble Brutus alive.
Hear the shrill whistle that brings order to the hubbub.
Let it fly out.
Madam, you’ve treated me badly, very badly.
Oh, was she now?
Come, Vaughan.
Dead.
But what’s the joke?
That’s a good thing to put in—it keeps you from getting in trouble with the law.
Goodbye.
And my king goes on
Here comes the little villain herself.
Nobody ever set a gem like her in a worse setting than gold.
There’s plenty of time.
But why couldn’t I say “Amen”?
He’s hot-tempered, and he might try to hit you with his staff.
Good morning, father.
I can’t promise that love won’t transform me, but I can promise you this
That’s what’s clever about it.
I prefer to call it a “hanger.” But anyway.
I never saw you before in my life.
Is this the work of an ambitious man?
Then stay with us.
A knight on a quest?
Ha!
That’s why it’s better for wise men to trumpet their own virtues, like I do.
The whole world is a stage, and all the men and women merely actors.
You probably killed a lot of his men?
Then, at my farm I have a hundred milk cows, a hundred and twenty fat oxen in my stables, and all the equipment necessary to maintain them.
Strangle her in her bed, the same bed she’s contaminated.
With all my heart, Phoebe.
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
I thought it was the right thing to do.
Any man who knows how to write can answer a letter.
It means being filled with fantasy; with passion and wishes; with adoration, loyalty, and devotion.
So go to your deaths, poor miserable wretches, the pain of which may merciful God give you the strength to endure.
I’m glad your father isn’t alive to see this.
I order you, speak!
Oh yes.
But your words are as sweet as honey—you’ve stolen from the bees and left them with nothing.
Tell him I’ve spoken to my husband on his behalf, and I think everything will be all right.
It’s some meteor coming out of the sun to light your way to Mantua.
You have my consent.
Oh, I remember that very clearly!
No, good goose, don’t bite me.
We’ll put a leash on this danger that’s now running wild.
There are ten thousand— Geese, you idiot?
That’s right.
Tell the army to flee.
Why?
Ely joining Richmond troubles me more than Buckingham and his quickly assembled army.
Do they come from good families?
That way, he’ll waste his provisions and tire out his soldiers, weakening his own capacities, while we, lying still, are rested, energetic, and nimble.
Pull off my beard?
I know the king and queen sent for you.
I must be as stupid as an ass—that’s why I don’t know her, but she knows me.
I’d say the same thing, but I’m afraid I’d be faced out of my way.
He was very upset that Fortinbras had taken advantage of his being old and sick to deceive him, and he ordered Fortinbras’s arrest.
Don’t sleep so close to me.
Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
Yes, I’ll say it again, my lord.
Let them start something.
Here is the door, sir.
So the life that died with shame Lives on with fame.
Ill will never prompted anything well said.
I guess it’s only one man—no big deal.
In private?
My head is pounding.
Quiet!
She weeps for Edward and so do I, while she does not weep for Clarence, though I do.
I’ll be back soon, and if I haven’t brought you anything to eat, I will give you permission to die.
I can only do it by lying, my lord, but I can do it so secretly that no one will suspect me.
Who asked you to call her?
It bothers me, though, that these poor spotted innocents, who, after all, are this deserted city’s native citizens, should be gouged with arrows.
Come on, “nothing” will get you nothing.
Oh, I’m dying, Horatio!
If the world were mine, I’d give it all up—everything except Demetrius—to be you. 
Bridegroom?
Oh, he’s a gallant king!
Now go ahead and tell me the rest of your story.—Please go stand farther away.
Goodbye.
Stanley, Richmond is your wife’s son.
Then I salute you with this royal title
Me too, lieutenant.
Holy Father Lawrence instructed me to fall on my knees and beg your forgiveness.
May the gods bless Antony today!
We human beings don’t control our own destinies.
They got what they deserved.
Good point, and well said.
What should we do about that?
That’s a lame answer.
Come down, look no more.
Find out the way, and I’ll find the right man.
I might come back soon.
Where is he, in his bed?
Tell us, Bottom.
You’re on your deathbed.
Is it true, is it true?
The horsemen stand frozen like candlesticks, torches in their hands.
There comes an old man with his three sons— It sounds like the beginning of an old folktale.
What’s up, Grumio?
What’s that?
My letters are ready to go.
Please leave it to me to take care of the burial, as I have more reason to mourn than you do.
Sure, but don’t do it at full volume until there’s no danger in it.
Good morning, noble sir.
You promised to tell me.
Take me to him.
Just you wait.
If you want to read it, as I haven’t heard it yet, though I’ve heard too much of Phoebe’s cruelty.
I don’t like sports.
You had rotten food, and he helped you eat it.
Oh yes, I heard them all, and more, too.
Stay calm.
Ruining his meals, his enjoyment, and his sleep would drive any man or beast mad.
Halt!
I wanted to teach her how perfectly I love her, kinsman, and that’s good English.
I hope I enjoy wearing it, for my heart is very heavy.
What have you done?
It’s women crying, my good lord.
We want Antony taken alive.
Come out, I order you.
I hope you go senile soon, sir, so you can become a more foolish fool!
What have you two sisters done?
No thank you, my lord.
Yes, my lord, I played the part of a gossip and brought him the news.
Stop eating?
I’m here.
I didn’t expect any better from him once he got involved with Mistress Shore.
Isn’t there one man left in the world who knows not to take a wife?
I won’t lodge any more than that under my roof.
Yes, one, and this is how I did it.
I swear on my honor that we saw and heard Hero talking to a brute at her window last night.
The town is besieged, and the trumpet calls us to the gap, and we talk and do nothing, by Christ.
If you would take the trouble to study the tactics of Pompey the Great, I can tell you that you would find no tittle-tattle or pibble-pabble in Pompey’s camp.
Is that the man?
You really don’t recognize me, father?
No.
Kingly power seems most like God’s power when the king mixes mercy with justice.
I’m your love, no matter what you think.
Where, good Miss Mary?
Cheer up.
Are you that impatient?
Don’t tire yourself out, monsieur.
My stomach’s a little upset.
Close the garden door and leave me alone to hear his message.
Eat.
That’s true.
Wake up the Montagues.
And I am your Rosalind.  
No, I’m sure your Grace won’t be able to persuade him to try a second round, even though you couldn’t dissuade him from trying the first.
You’re too bitter.
Release me So I can return to my dukedom With your help.
There’s my hat!
I myself am playing the man in the moon— Well then, that’s the biggest mistake of all.
Either be calm and polite or I’ll drown you out with the music of war.
I think I see a friend who will pay my bail and save my life.
I know you well.
I remember a jumble of impressions, but nothing distinctly.
That you lift the death sentence on my servant, who killed a rowdy and belligerent former servant of the duke of Norfolk.
Why, dear me, Kate!
Good-bye, good-bye, good-bye.
Who are you, slave?
You don’t know me.
Ah well, my Kate.
If we walk on the well-worn paths, they won’t get caught in our petticoats.
I’ve told you I’m your friend, and I’ll stick by you. 
He gets up at nightfall and wanders around till dawn.
I can’t believe it.
And how was that one settled?
That’s how flimsy and unreal pleasure is.
If that’s what you mean, I’ll melt this gold and pour it down your throat that speaks these hateful words.
How literal this guy is!
God, that song’s even better than the other one.
You’d better not make that suggestion, Agrippa.
I could do a great job with Hercules, or any other part that requires ranting and raving.
Give me access to them, and soon you won’t have to worry about them anymore.
Winter garments need to be filled with something, And so does skinny Rosalind.
Go ahead—say “Amen.” No more talking.
When he couldn’t what?
As I sat on the shore crying over my father’s shipwreck, I heard the music creep over the wild waves, calming their fury and soothing my own grief with its sweet melodies.
Apparently so.—Cover their faces.
Do I know these men who are with you?
I’m determined to be heard by someone.
It’s good if you love Hero, because she’s worthy of your love.
You look too much like the ghost of Banquo.
While he was alive, I lived only to serve him and oppose his enemies.
Caesar?    
I’m sure I’ll feel guilty if I run away from this Jew, my master.
It’s difficult to have such immaturity so close to my heart, but bear with me.
But you don’t love me.
Do you have it with you?
Tell me which part I’m going to play, then go on.
I’m indebted to you.
My creditors are getting mean.
Are you insane, old man?
My wickedness?
Why, friends, you don’t even know what you’re doing yet.
Just listen a little more, and I’ll bring you up to date about the present situation, which is the whole reason I’m telling you this story in the first place.
Must I bite?
Why did you cry out in your sleep?
I swear, she’s a very good-natured lady.
The guilty speak volumes even when they’re silent.
Good friend,” he said, “say that the faithful Roman sends an oyster’s treasure to the great Queen of Egypt, and that he plans to enhance this meager gift by adding new kingdoms to her empire.
I saw her, but I didn’t notice her.
Who’s in there?
It was I, in fact, whom you promised to strike.
I’ll be back soon to wake up your generosity.
Indeed, I would have such an exploit for you, Ligarius, if you were healthy enough to hear it.
A lively young one!
Will they see us?
Let your anger fall on me then, even if its sharpness pierces my heart.
You pale face!
His speech was like a tangled chain.
If she orders me to go, I’ll thank her warmly as if she’d just offered to put me up for a week.
I have nothing to say to you.
You need to learn what ants know well about winter—there’s no point in slaving away if there’s no hope for profit.
Hey, Cassio!
If I could get my hands on you, I’d make you care.
What did they do wrong?
This is getting worse and worse!
That’s my way, when I see a crab-apple.
It’s late.
Six Barbary horses, six French swords with accessories, and three imaginatively designed carriages—sounds like a French bet against the Danish.
You are all most welcome here; please make yourselves at home.
She already has a face.
Oh dear gods!
One of us will stay and stand guard.
By God, I’m going to tell the duke how slack you’ve been.
Farewell, farewell.
Your highness will have to force me to tell.
God will revenge it.
His face will make the heavens so beautiful that the world will fall in love with the night and forget about the garish sun.
Go home!
I didn’t think I would ever fight Pompey.
Why, she was dead before you were even born.
And she can cry, sir—oh, how she can cry!
Each of you, give me your bloody hand.
Titania sleeps there sometimes at night, lulled to sleep among the flowers by dances and other delights.
He’s having a fit and talking nonsense.
